---
title: Jul 16, 2016
ref: "W12 I am upset because I see a meaningless world."
alink: "/acim/workbook/l012/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Tonight, I want to talk about how important you are. And I don&rsquo;t
mean that in any grand egotistical way. I mean it in a very grounded
essential way.

You&rsquo;ve learned, among other things, that you are to look into your
brothers&rsquo; eyes and remember God. And you know what? That&rsquo;s
the ultimate simplicity of Being &hellip; It&rsquo;s the simple ultimate
of Being.

You&rsquo;ve also learned from the Course and from everything that
I&rsquo;ve been saying, that you are co-creators with God. And you know
what? That&rsquo;s not a different activity from what I just described
with the words, &ldquo;Look into your brothers&rsquo; eyes and remember
God.&rdquo;

To be co-creators with God means that you magnify Him. It means that you
bear witness to God. It means that you look at your brother&mdash;you
look in his eyes, or you look at your cat and look into her eyes, or you
look at the snake in the garden and you look into its eyes and you say,
&ldquo;I have seen God.&rdquo; Except it isn&rsquo;t really a matter of
just saying, &ldquo;I have seen God.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s a matter of being
present with that cat or snake or neighbor in an undefended
way&mdash;meaning that you&rsquo;re not bringing along with your intent
to see any preconceptions: &ldquo;Oh, snakes are scary!&rdquo;
&ldquo;Oh, my brother&rsquo;s a bastard!&rdquo; &ldquo;Oh, my cat is
cute but you know what, she doesn&rsquo;t cuddle very much, she&rsquo;s
not a very affectionate cat. I sometimes have to be careful when
I&rsquo;m around her cause she gets a little feisty.&rdquo;

That&rsquo;s not being present with anything with
innocence&mdash;without a pre-existing agenda for your mode of behavior
with whatever it is you&rsquo;re being intimate with. And when you are
coming into relationship with someone with a pre-existing agenda or
concept, you are bearing witness to you. You are bearing witness to what
you have faith in, which is what you believe. You have faith in your
belief about snakes or your cat or your brother.

And you&rsquo;re not being co-creator with anything because that which
has come to these conclusions, you&mdash;using your imagination entirely
separate from your union with God&mdash;are not actual. You&rsquo;re not
a presence that is capable of creating from scratch. All you can do is
have an opinion or a skewed definition of something already put in place
by the Father in the act of Creation.

This is why you are so important.

You are important because God needs to be witnessed to, in order for
Creation to be confirmed&mdash;complete! That&rsquo;s why you are
important. That&rsquo;s why you are essential. That is what gives you
Meaning.

You wake up in the morning &hellip; you haven&rsquo;t even gotten up
yet, and suddenly you fill your mind with concepts about the day that is
ahead of you: &ldquo;Oh, boy, I hope it isn&rsquo;t as bad as yesterday.
I can&rsquo;t take any more of this crap! It&rsquo;s too overwhelming
what&rsquo;s going on in the world, or in my community, or in my family,
or in my dis-integrated family!&rdquo;

There&rsquo;s no innocence there. There&rsquo;s an agenda to not have
today be like yesterday. You&rsquo;re caught in time. You&rsquo;re
caught in the past and you project it onto the coming day, but hope that
it won&rsquo;t be the way you are projecting it!

You are bearing witness to yourself!

However, you don&rsquo;t think of it that way. You think you&rsquo;re
thinking about the world. You think you&rsquo;re thinking about
them&mdash;out there!

But you are &hellip; you are thinking that you can think about them
which doesn&rsquo;t constitute connection at all and totally inhibits
any possibility of communication&mdash;of communion &hellip; of union
&hellip; of harmony &hellip; of peace.

But you are important. You are essential and the essentialness that you
bring into the experience of Being is your capacity, your duty, to be
looking for God in what you&rsquo;re seeing &hellip; and persisting
until you see God there. Because then you are bearing witness to the
Father and being co-creator with Him and that is your Function.

Now, there&rsquo;s a wave of fear rolling around your globe &hellip;
well, no, it&rsquo;s not really rolling around, it&rsquo;s being pushed
around on purpose, for a purpose. And that is to engage you in
forgetting your Function: To stop recognizing God in everything you see.
And instead, recognize a definition &hellip; um &hellip; put forward by
who knows who? You know, how far underground can you possibly go to find
out the depths from which fear is being promoted? But of course, such
thoughts only increase fear and distract you even further from your
Function. And you abandon your importance.

Now, when you decide to pay attention to your best thoughts, or your
worst thoughts, when you choose to pay attention to the best or worst
thoughts of others, the light in you has gone out, the divinity of you
has been hidden, obscured by a preoccupation of your attention on
something that&mdash;by giving your attention to&mdash;does not confirm
God, and actually, at the bottom line, confirms absolutely nothing. I
mean by that, the complete absence of anything.

Now, fear is being promoted. In many ways, right now, the bottom line
concept which is being promoted is that everybody&mdash;the majority of
the inhabitants on your globe&mdash;are dissatisfied with governments.
And there is civil and social and mental unrest. And that it, all by
itself, is rising to the surface because it has been pushed down so far,
for so long, that it&rsquo;s just bound and determined to come up. And
it&rsquo;s important for it to come up and be looked at and responded
to.

Now, there is fear &hellip; yes. There is dissatisfaction &hellip; yes.
But it isn&rsquo;t coming from governments. And it isn&rsquo;t coming
from family members and it&rsquo;s not coming from the community
you&rsquo;re in. It&rsquo;s not coming from any place &ldquo;out
there&rdquo; calling for correction &ldquo;out there.&rdquo;

The unrest, the anger, the frustration is an automatic accompaniment to
each one of you choosing to pay more attention to your thinking than to
&ldquo;shut up&rdquo; and in the silence of the holy instant, to turn to
the Father, to ask of the Father, to experience what the Father is Being
and what His Perspective is. So that once the Father reveals It to you
because you&rsquo;ve let It in, a shift of perception occurs in you that
allows for you to see God where you hadn&rsquo;t been able to see God.

The fear, anxiety, tension, dissatisfaction&mdash;all of those things
arise because it is unnatural for you to think that you can think on
your own. To think that you have the capacity to be independent and that
your function is not to bear witness to God, but to bear witness to
whatever the hell is important to you today, and who knows what
it&rsquo;ll be tomorrow &hellip; and by dammit whatever it is today its
serious, it means something and everybody better recognize it &hellip;
until you change your mind and it&rsquo;s something else. But it will
always be something else, and it will always keep everyone and
everything off balance, because being unjoined with your Source is a
state of imbalance itself.

And so all of your perceptions will be imbalanced and your importance
will be out of sight, because out of mind, because you&rsquo;re not
giving your attention to your function, which is to complete the act of
Creation by recognizing God in it right in your brothers&rsquo; eyes . .
and right in the snakes&rsquo; eyes and right in the spiders&rsquo; eyes
and right in the kittens&rsquo; eyes and right in the babies&rsquo;
eyes, and right in the majesty of a four hundred year old redwood or the
first blossom of a petunia in Spring. You hear what I&rsquo;m saying?

I am saying that those who are operating on the basis of the
ego&mdash;on the basis on independence from the Father&mdash;are for
their very own selfish reasons, suggesting to you that people of a
particular religion or people of a particular race, or people of a
certain gender are worth being afraid of. In fact, it is essential to be
afraid of them because they are untrustworthy or they are unscrupulous
or they are underserving. And that&rsquo;s the way they draw you in, to
an emotional response. And they tell you that the emotional response
you&rsquo;re having is because it was in you all along, before they
opened their mouth, and it was just ready to come out and that everyone
who is disturbed is so grateful that they&rsquo;ve been given permission
to express it by someone who had enough guts to put forward the idea
that it is unjustified to look into your brothers&rsquo; eyes and
remember God.

And so they fool you into thinking that you have an ally in them when
you didn&rsquo;t even know in the beginning that you were angry for the
reasons they have told you, you are. Yeah, you have been angry.
You&rsquo;ve been angry because you&rsquo;ve been afraid. And
you&rsquo;ve been afraid because you&rsquo;ve been in competition with
God by authoring your own ideas, your own definitions at odds with God.
And that makes everyone nervous. Everyone who is engaging in it feels
nervous, because you are out of sync with your very own Being.

Now it would be very helpful if, instead of blaming all of this up-rise
of anger on societies and religions and politicians and governments, and
instead pointed your attention to the withinness of your Being and said,
&ldquo;You know what, no matter how fearful you are at the moment, if
you will become still&mdash;through any means that works for
you&mdash;if you will still your mind, you will, in spite of the anxiety
and the overwhelm you were experiencing, you will experience
peace&mdash;the anxiety will actually be gone.&rdquo;

And in that peace, then, it would be well for you to be encouraged by
the hatemongers and warmongers to turn to the Father&mdash;to your
Source&mdash;and say, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here? What is the
God&rsquo;s honest truth here? What is Your Perspective? Infill me with
the clarity of your Vision which is responsible for Creation and help me
to see You everywhere!&rdquo;

If that were what was promoted, everything would move in a direction of
increasing harmony. I mean, actual cooperation globally. Because the
problem would be being addressed&mdash;the real problem would be being
addressed.

You are very important, because it&rsquo;s your function to be doing
this. Not because a position of honor has been proffered to you, but
because you are and have been from the beginning, the Son or Daughter of
God, the expression of the Creator. And you have been created as that
which recognizes the Creator and acknowledges the Creator&mdash;confirms
Creation&mdash;causing the wholeness of Being to have unbroken
integrity.

It takes a lot of media &hellip; you know, newspapers, magazines, radio
programs, television programs, twitter, Facebook, social
communication&mdash;it takes a lot of media to spread the gospel of
fear, to spread the gospel of hate and promote it and arouse it. And
then in the face of having aroused it, telling you that all its done is
brought to the surface anger that you already had for the very things
you&rsquo;ve been told you ought to be angry about.

That&rsquo;s manipulation. That is deceit. And you know what? On the
scale that it is occurring, it is evil. It is evil because it so
completely distracts so much of the Brotherhood from its Function as
co-creator and engages it in emotional responses of hate, of
retaliation, of anger, of jealousy, and ultimately through the use of
force stopping in whatever way it can, anything that might allow for you
to rediscover your Function so that you might in the face of all of the
turmoil, take a moment&mdash;take five minutes to sit down and breathe
deeply &hellip; and slowly &hellip; and meditate and get into your
peace. And then choose to find out what the truth is so that you might
act on it and in accordance with it because you feel it at the very core
of your Being, as the very core of You. You&rsquo;re very important!

Now, everyone is well aware of the scope of the attempt to influence
mankind on your globe. A lot of effort and energy is put into bearing
witness to evil&mdash;bearing witness to that which does not include God
in any way. Every Son and Daughter of God needs to own his or her
Function completely enough to decide to bear witness to the Truth, to
bear witness to God through the media, through involvement with friends,
through involvement in the community, through involvement through social
media.

Many of you are very aware of how much time you spend scouting social
media and news to find out how you ought to feel, to find out what
people are saying, to find out what&rsquo;s currently &ldquo;hot&rdquo;
and you read, and you don&rsquo;t post. You read and you don&rsquo;t
contradict.

Now, I do not mean contradiction in the terms of argument and war.
I&rsquo;m talking about contradicting simply in terms of letting there
be space in the media continuum that&rsquo;s filled with something
that&rsquo;s true, so that those who are surfing for news come across IT
and have a chance to be reminded of what is true and to feel something
in their soul rise up and say &ldquo;Yes!&rdquo;

It is not the time to go into a cave or a closet to bear witness to God
by acknowledging Him in your mind. It&rsquo;s time to bear witness to
God in the market place. Does that mean spouting religious talk? Well,
in some circumstances that might turn out to be exactly the appropriate
thing with the person standing in line ahead of you for three or four
minutes.

But more than anything it has to do with speaking in a way that
doesn&rsquo;t confirm the fears and the anxieties and the anger that
confront you through the people you know and meet. And instead, with the
advantage of practicing the holy instant, being able to share ideas in
language that register and lighten the burden and inspire whoever it is
you&rsquo;re dealing with, with the idea that there is another way to
look at this &hellip; there actually is another way to look at this. Do
you hear what I&rsquo;m saying?

&ldquo;Oh I know, it won&rsquo;t work. Things are just too far gone.
Everybody&rsquo;s really just too angry.&rdquo; You know, somebody can
be very angry and very bitter and a hand gently placed on their shoulder
with love can reduce them to tears, tears of relief that they
don&rsquo;t even know the reason for, but suddenly the distress and the
tension vanished, the flood gates opened. You see?

And it brings us back to the very word I&rsquo;ve been using for some
time now, the word &ldquo;involvement.&rdquo; &ldquo;Oh yeah, I know,
look into my Brothers eyes and remember God, [chuckles] man, if that
brings about a change, that really will be a miracle.&rdquo; Yeah,
exactly! This is called A Course in Miracles. A Course in sudden shifts
of perception, meaning shifts out of one thing into another thing,
shifts out of tininess into grandness, shift out of pain into relief and
peace, shift out of sorrow into first peace and the feeling of the
embrace of love, and then the joy that spontaneously comes forth from
that. Yes, don&rsquo;t forget we are talking about miracles!

And you know what? I said you&rsquo;re important. Every single human
being, every single aspect of Creation is important, because it bears
witness to the Father &hellip; it demonstrates and confirms Creation.

If miracles aren&rsquo;t possible, if sudden shifts of perception
aren&rsquo;t possible, then there&rsquo;s no need for the
Book&mdash;throw it away. But if the Book actually means something, then
I not only encourage you but I challenge you, I charge you with the
requirement to give more of your time each day to looking at everything
not for confirmation of how bad everything is, but to see confirmation
of God right where It seems to be totally absent, because It is there.
And the uncovering of It is the whole point of the miracle. It&rsquo;s
the whole point of Atonement. It&rsquo;s the whole point of the end of
illusions.

Now because it&rsquo;s your function, you are capable of it and the
Universal stands behind you, underneath you, around you, above you, in
support of the confirmation of God&mdash;the confirmation of Creation.
So just because you&rsquo;re not used to this, just because you&rsquo;re
not used to actually implementing it, is no reason not to experiment
with it, not to try it with commitment.

Do you have something else that&rsquo;s more worthy of exploring the
possibility of with commitment? Is there anything else that promises
what the Truth promises? Then stop arguing for the right to snooze a
little longer, or not do it quite yet.

Now, watch out for thinking, because it&rsquo;s easy to interpret what
I&rsquo;m saying as participating in the war between good and evil. But
you must remember the evil is not a power. And so, something cannot war
with nothing. There&rsquo;s no war to it, what there is to it is simply
neglecting to do the old any longer &hellip; just neglecting to give
voice, to give utterance to the voice for fear, and instead listening
for the Voice for Truth and then giving voice to it &hellip; where? To
your brothers and sisters and to your world.

Now although it is not a war and it is not really a contest, I would
like to know what the justification would be for the difference between
a people standing up in the multitude of themselves against a coup, and
a multitude of people standing up in determined intent to acknowledge
good, to acknowledge Truth, to give voice to It, to speak It loudly, to
speak It persistently, to&mdash;well for lack of better
words&mdash;&ldquo;fill the dessert full of flowers,&rdquo; by bringing
to the situation that which changes the situation without arguing with
the situation.

Everybody says, &ldquo;What can I do?&rdquo; Oh well, you&rsquo;re part
of the multitude of those who are conscious and who have the capacity to
choose for peace before they look out into the world and make decisions
and come to conclusions about it in order to determine their behavior.
You&rsquo;re a part of the multitude who knows how, through the holy
instant, or through meditation to move into the place of Silence where
the still small voice, where the Voice for Truth, where wisdom of the
ages becomes clear to you, is available to you, and becomes that around
which you gather your resources to act.

You&rsquo;re part of the multitude, whether you&rsquo;re sitting on the
toilet in your apartment, or cooking in your kitchen in your mansion, or
driving in your Honda down the freeway, you&rsquo;re part of the
multitude of the Sons and Daughters of God who are important, because
your purpose and function is to bear witness to the Father and be that
which triggers sudden shifts of perception &hellip; miracles.

You know, many of you may be long time students of the Course and
sometimes you can be such a long time student that some of the
fundamentals which registered with you when you first opened the Book
are off in the distant past of your memory. And you know what?
It&rsquo;s a perfect time to open up to the Workbook Lessons and reread
the first seventeen, because it sets the problem clearly in place. In
other words, it describes that which calls for correction and it
describes what is the correction.

Now, I&rsquo;m reading from:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
LESSON 12[^1]

But I am upset because I see a meaningless world.
</div>

Yeah, you look out and you see a meaningless world. And here they are,
the politicians and the officials, and they&rsquo;re whipping up a storm
of antagonism and doubt and fear that seems to prove that the feeling of
insecurity you&rsquo;ve had is because of what they&rsquo;re telling you
the problem is, instead of the fact that you&rsquo;ve chosen for a while
to think for yourself as though you could think on your own, as though
you&rsquo;re an independent entity. And so, you&rsquo;re convinced that
you&rsquo;re vulnerable, vulnerable to god knows what, from where,
because no one is following the rules of war any more, nobody is
intelligently [chuckle] fighting.

But the thing that the first few Workbook Lessons make clear are that
everything you&rsquo;re seeing that calls for correction is being formed
by that which you&rsquo;re using to look at everything through&mdash;the
lens of independence. And you know what? Hidden a few steps behind the
wonderful idea of independence, is power. Independence is never
beneficent, it&rsquo;s always to justify power and being powerful.

And so, you&rsquo;re looking at the world through a lens that causes you
to be afraid. The fear is there because you have abandoned your Source,
and that is a scary proposition.

Now, coming back to:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
LESSON 12

But I am upset because I see a meaningless world.

What is meaningless is neither good nor bad. Why, then, should a
meaningless world upset you? If you could accept the world as
meaningless &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, as not meaning everything you think it means.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you could accept the world as meaningless and let the truth be
written upon it for you, it would make you indescribably happy.
</div>

&ldquo;Father, what is the Truth here?&rdquo; &ldquo;Well Son, well
Daughter, the truth is that when you let the Truth be shared with you,
and you no longer feel the need to be the author of it yourself, the
experience is one of indescribable happiness. Why? Because you&rsquo;re
Home, because you are fulfilling your function, your purpose, you are
being what you were made to Be, you are in complete harmony with the
Father, co-Creator of everything the Father is Being. That is
indescribable joy.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But because it is meaningless, you are impelled to write upon it what
you would have it be.
</div>

And there&rsquo;s the problem.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is this you see in it.
</div>

All the definitions and meanings that you&rsquo;ve given it, and all the
definitions and meanings that others are giving it and trying to get you
to believe, it really is as well. Why? So that you might become upset
and so that you might become controllable and join in an uprising, not
against the primary mistake and the only mistake of thinking for
yourself, but against everyone who is thinking for themselves at odds
with you thinking for yourself. Is that clear? That is not a solution.
That isn&rsquo;t the way out. And your importance is lost if you get
sucked into that.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is this you see in it.
</div>

What you would write upon it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is this that is meaningless in truth.
</div>

Listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Beneath your words is written the Word of God.
</div>

And that&rsquo;s why I say a prayer for you to give is: &ldquo;Father,
let me see the more of what You&rsquo;re Being than what I&rsquo;m
seeing right here or right there.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Beneath your words &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your definitions, your theories, your mean-spirited attempts to
coerce &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is written the Word of God. The truth upsets you now, but when
your words have been erased, you will see His.
</div>

That&rsquo;s the miracle! You see His. You don&rsquo;t create His, you
don&rsquo;t twist His arm to show you. You don&rsquo;t go through long
educational complicated processes to deserve to know the Truth.
It&rsquo;s simple. The moment you shut up and abandon the word
you&rsquo;re giving, and listen in the Silence, you see the Word God has
placed beneath what you applied to It, and the world changes. The world
is transformed by the renewing of your mind, which like the domino
effect, renews everyone&rsquo;s mind.

And this is why you are important, not because you are powerful, but
because in the simplicity of what you divinely Are, you&mdash;when
you&rsquo;re introducing nothing foreign to it&mdash;instill and inspire
the recognition of the Truth, like the sun coming up in the morning and
filling the night sky with light, illuminating everything. That&rsquo;s
just the way it works.

You are the multitude. What you chose to create by yourself or what you
chose to let be Created by the Father and accept, determines your
experience. One promotes ongoing illusion &hellip; and that&rsquo;s all.
But illusions are very uncomfortable, because you&rsquo;re out of sync
with your Being. And that never feels good. Choose to bear witness to
your Source &hellip; exclamation point!

I love you very much.

[^1]: W12 I am upset because I see a meaningless world

