---
title: "Aug 2, 2016"
ref: "Discussion"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

We had intended to have a meeting this past Sunday, but Paul found
himself, well, let&rsquo;s say, bound up&mdash;distracted in
argumentative, negative feelings. And as a result could not hear me. And
so we ended up not having the meeting.

Much later on that night, shortly after midnight, Paul decided that
perhaps he ought to have a focused conversation with me and to persist
in listening until the conversation occurred. And so I want to share
with you all, the conversation we had because it is pertinent to
everyone.

We talk and talk and talk about practicing the two-step, practicing the
holy instant and I&rsquo;ve been making it clear that it isn&rsquo;t
just a pleasant thing to do as relief from the stresses of daily life
but involves something far more significant: it involves Waking up. And
so, Paul began the conversation by asking:

PAUL: What's the block? Or what do I need to know?

RAJ: &hellip; and at this point, after having spent perhaps an hour
getting to the point of actually asking me the question, there were four
or five minutes of quiet in which little light-bulbs went on in his
mind&mdash;little pieces of Revelation. And so I said to him,
&ldquo;Yes, you are realizing the problem.&rdquo;

And this is the problem:  You are objecting to being demanded of to make
the Gift. The logic you are using is that making the Gift on demand
turns the Gift into a non-gift, because the "making of the Gift" is
transacted and is not actually gifted. It also means that the "making of
the Gift" is the result of control, which holds you hostage until you
deliver. (Mind you, I&rsquo;m speaking to Paul here.) And finally, this
means that the "making of the Gift" is no longer an expression of love,
because it is a result of negotiation.

Now, what you are beginning to be willing to see is that if "making the
Gift" is "you fulfilling your Function," is you being wholly You because
it is your choice to not have a mind separate from God, then you will
always be making the Gift whether anyone likes it or wants it or not.
For someone to demand it then becomes a ridiculous, meaningless
redundancy, like demanding someone stand up when they are already
standing, and the so-called logic you have been using can be seen for
the nonsense it is.

So, the issue here is that you would rather "stand" on some
self-righteous principles&mdash;which, interestingly enough are totally
lacking in principles&mdash;by insisting upon not fulfilling your
Function and engaging in a struggle of independent wills, instead. It is
like a toddler saying, "I will not be cute and adorable for you if you
expect it of me!" If he's cute and adorable, he has no choice about it.
He's cute and adorable.

If you're the Son of God, you're the Son of God, and there's nothing you
can do about it. If it's your Function to confirm God in your very
being, then there's nothing you can do about it. That's your Function!
If you don't become sidetracked by a contest of wills&mdash;claiming the
"right" to make the Gift as an act of your will and not in compliance to
another's will&mdash;you will have come Home. You will be in your right
Mind. Sanity will prevail. And problems that are nothing more than so
much intellectual smoke and mirrors (in other words illogical logic)
will not mystify you, making illusions seem real.

The question is: Are you going to go ahead and let that Mind be in you
which is also in me and be done with the illusion of independence, or
are you going to continue to pretend that you are an independent
"thinker" who has a capacity to be clear&mdash;when he chooses
to&mdash;as a special "Gift" which no one had better have expectations
about, much less demands?

You shouldn't feel overwhelmed or intimidated by the expectations of
others, or the vigor of their demands. I know it feels like
confrontation&mdash;but only if you're resisting fulfilling your
Function as a permanent devotion to your Father. In that ungrounded
state, you misinterpret the "demands" as a requirement to be devoted to
the ones making them&mdash;being controlled. But, again, that particular
smoke and mirrors configuration of ideas only occurs when your attention
is improperly placed on them and you instead of your Father and, as a
result, you are resisting making the Gift of Him and fulfilling your
Function of confirming Creation.

Give up your irrational rationales for withholding the Gift or sharing
It only "at appointed times." Let your right Mind prevail. That is the
Gift! It's also You being Normal&mdash;nothing special. Yes, others will
expect you to be Normal all the time. That's normal! Others will expect
you to be Sane all the time. That's normal! Others will love you for
being Normal. That's normal, too! It doesn't make you special or give
you special "rights" but it will be special to everyone because it will
embody more clearly than ever the Truth about them. That's also normal,
because it reveals their Function and supports the courage it takes for
them to fulfill It too, just as you are doing.

You see?

And that was the end of our conversation.

I know everyone thinks that hearing Guidance is perhaps a special Gift
that some have (and thank Goodness they do) because it hasn&rsquo;t
happened to you. And the only reason it hasn&rsquo;t happened to you, is
because you haven&rsquo;t given permission for it. You are still
honoring your ability to do your own thinking. Willfulness is still
present and active&mdash;human will is still present and active.

Very often Guidance is experienced, one hears the Holy Spirit speak or
hears me speak under great duress where finally, even though one thought
he was willing to hear, he discovers that there&rsquo;s more letting go
that he can do and it is experienced as &ldquo;giving up.&rdquo; Giving
up&mdash;giving up all hope, which really means giving up all hope of
coming up with the answer yourself. And it&rsquo;s at that point that
there&rsquo;s nothing blocking the door through which the Holy Spirit
enters, or the Father enters, or I enter, or your Guide enters to speak
with you and to stand in front of you inviting you to move toward Him as
He moves through the Door bringing you with Him, because you are not
supposed to be caught in some supposed capacity to be able to think for
yourself and as a result of thinking for yourself, proving your worth or
your superiority or your value. You see?

Now, in a way, it&rsquo;s harder to listen and hear when there is no
emergency pushing you, because it requires a degree of willingness that
very often you won&rsquo;t bring into play unless there is an emergency
pushing you. But it is normal to be experiencing your right Mind. It is
normal to be performing your Function as the holy Son or Daughter of
God, by looking with the Father&rsquo;s Vision, which the Father gives
to you so that you might recognize Him in everything and complete what
I&rsquo;m going to call, the Circle of Creation&mdash;confirming the
Father in His Expressions.

This is not something that will translate you to another incredible
world. It is a practice to be engaged in right where you are with
whatever is in front of you. &ldquo;Father, I wish to see the more of
you that is there than what I&rsquo;m currently seeing. Father, I wish
to experience the clear perspective&mdash;the pure perception of what
You are Being right where I&rsquo;m looking. And I will not introduce
any preconceptions of mine before You have a chance to answer me. I will
not prefer my best judgments or my ultimate use of logic to figure out
what it is without You.&rdquo;

And this is something to be done all the time, because it is what serves
as the bridge over the gap of ignorance bringing you back into your
right Mind&mdash;your clarity and your divine Selfhood.

I know, I keep saying this over and over in many different ways. But you
know what? Perhaps the most significant &ldquo;object&rdquo; that you
can look at, desiring to see the more of what God is Being right there
than what you&rsquo;re seeing, is your brother or sister&mdash;your
fellowman. Because it is your misperception of them that most
significantly imprisons you in the darkness of sin, disease and
death&mdash;of the human condition, which is really the divine condition
perceived through a glass darkly,1 which means, perceived through the
lens of your private use of your mind as though your mind were privately
yours to accomplish things with.

Humility really does mean failure of the ego.

Again, humility really does mean failure of the ego. Humility is what
you find yourself experiencing when you have given up on what you call
your ego and are willing to set it aside.

Oh, I know &hellip; everybody can&rsquo;t wait to set their body aside
because it&rsquo;s &ldquo;not real.&rdquo; But nobody talks very much
about laying aside their ego, when that is the one single thing that
constitutes the Meaning of the holy instant. It is the one single thing
that undoes the illusion of mortality and mortal life and all the
ugliness and manipulation that goes along with it.

There is no one thing that you could better spend your time on than the
practice of the holy instant and the intent to be open to and to receive
the clarity that comes from the Holy Spirit when you say,
&ldquo;HELP!&rdquo; and really mean it. What that means, is when you say
&ldquo;help&rdquo; because you accept that you are all by yourself,
hopeless, without hope, and so you stop trying to create something out
of nothing through the use of your mind, calling it hope.

Is that clear?

If it isn&rsquo;t, you can listen to this over and over again. If it
isn&rsquo;t, you can count on it that I will keep sharing it until it
makes sense and there&rsquo;s a willingness to abandon willfulness.

You know, the good news is, and everyone who has ever done it knows this
to be true, the simple truth is that when you accept the hopelessness of
your being able to do anything all by yourself, and in the absence of
the willfulness of trying, you are, as it were, a clean slate or a room
where the walls and ceiling and floor have fallen away and infinity is
what you find your natural environment to be, you will experience joy,
peace, and invulnerability of the sort you can&rsquo;t imagine because
they will have no opposites against which you must protect yourself.
That is an experience that is the experience of bliss.

No one wants to be forced to Wake up. &ldquo;Let me do it in my
time.&rdquo; Or like Paul says, &ldquo;Let it be my Gift.&rdquo; And let
my Gift be made &hellip; because it simply flows from him. Not because
someone wants it, not because someone is eager for it and aggressively
pleas for it&mdash;wants it right now!

When we began this evening, Paul didn&rsquo;t feel quite ready. And yet,
he was, let us say, determined that we would be having a Study Group
Meeting. It was determined between he and I and a few others who are
present. And his attitude was, &ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m just supposed to
do it when I&rsquo;m not ready?&rdquo; &ldquo;I&rsquo;m just supposed to
do it when it&rsquo;s not yet wonderfully, gently, beautifully emerging
from his soul?&rdquo; &ldquo;That&rsquo;s going to be pretty
hard!&rdquo; or &ldquo;That&rsquo;s not going to be easy.&rdquo; You see
that?

That was the smoke and mirrors illusion&mdash;the faulty use of logic
that seems reasonable. &ldquo;Oh, let&rsquo;s wait until tomorrow night
when I&rsquo;m sure I&rsquo;ll be more ready.&rdquo; But no one is ever
ready to abandon themselves to the Father&rsquo;s Will when the only
place they can come from to take that step is a long-standing use of
human will.

But I pointed out to him, &ldquo;Come-on, how hard is it to stand on the
edge of a cliff and simply let yourself fall. How much energy does that
actually take? You see? You let yourself fall. You abandon yourself to
the absence of control and you fall into the underlying everlasting arms
of Love&mdash;of God. And so he said, &ldquo;Okay.&rdquo; And here we
are, having the meeting, and it hasn&rsquo;t been laborious for him.

You see, when you&rsquo;re coming from the standpoint of a human
will&mdash;of your own human will&mdash;you are responsible for
everything or will have to be responsible for whatever you do.
That&rsquo;s frightening. Because, &ldquo;What in the world will happen
if I don&rsquo;t continue to exercise overt control based upon my best
judgments, based upon my best theories, based upon what life has taught
me as I have observed it and the way people behave? I don&rsquo;t know
if I want to risk being responsible for what happens when I&rsquo;m not
being responsible according to the definitions I have given to that
word.&rdquo;

That sense of self which must be responsible is an illusion. If it were
not, there would be no need for the idea &ldquo;Thy will, not mine be
done.2&rdquo; There would be no basis for that to be some sort of
eternal truth&mdash;transformational truth.

Now, I&rsquo;m not going to go on at length about this, but everyone
needs to be acutely, or let&rsquo;s say, exquisitely aware in every
detail with the fact that the practice of human will, the practice of
self-defense, the practice of proving ones worth, is being promoted on a
global level. Not just in the United States, but primarily in the United
States right now. And you know what? Don&rsquo;t be fooled. It is the
promotion of the very depths of &ldquo;the Fall.&rdquo; It is the
promotion of the ultimate forms of, &ldquo;my will, not Thine be
done,&rdquo; that is being promoted and which is being used to arouse
similar sentiments and feelings so that everyone might, or a vast
majority might take hold of this premise and actualize it more
completely than ever before.

&ldquo;Thy will, not mine be done.&rdquo; &ldquo;Love your neighbor as
yourself.&rdquo; &ldquo;If you have seen me, you have seen the
Father.&rdquo; &ldquo;If you have seen your Brother, you have seen the
Father.&rdquo; &ldquo;As I have loved you, love one another.&rdquo; I
could say, &ldquo;As I have excluded you, exclude one another,&rdquo;
but I have not excluded anyone. And so that means, do not exclude anyone
yourselves. And do not let this become a premise for your actions in the
world.

You are going to need to choose well. Those who will be voting in the
United States, because your vote will be a vote in the world and for the
world, whereas the wrong choice will be a vote against the world. A vote
for walls, a vote for exclusion, a vote for withdrawal from the
Family&mdash;the Brotherhood of man&mdash;it will be a vote for
everything that stands in complete opposite to what the Voice for Love
says, the exact opposite of everything I am teaching, the exact opposite
of what you are truly seeking.

&ldquo;Oh, it&rsquo;s really neat to have someone who speaks up and who
doesn&rsquo;t cater to the existing protocols.&rdquo; Really? . . well
if that&rsquo;s true, then will you join me in lifting up your voice and
not being politically correct, or spiritually correct, and will you with
the same amount of vigor and with great output of energy spread it
globally, the truths that we are talking about, the truths that
you&rsquo;re learning from your study of A Course in Miracles, or the
truth that you know in your heart and feel in spite of all the junk that
is going on.

Hey, if you like someone who rocks the boat, then be someone that rocks
the boat and say the truth that counteracts the lies about how human
nature is and about how man should treat man. You know, don&rsquo;t be a
fool &hellip; don&rsquo;t be fools and look with careless eyes and say,
&ldquo;It&rsquo;s really neat to see someone stand up and speak his mind
and let the chips fall where they may,&rdquo; wow, when what is being
said is the opposite of the truth, is not in harmony with God&rsquo;s
law.

It is not a time to be amused by or curious about or &hellip; oh,
lenient. It&rsquo;s exactly the time to speak up yourself and say the
uncommon truth, that is the truth that transforms and unites and heals
and whole-izes that which is already whole, and uncovers the Kingdom of
Heaven that is already the only thing going on, but not seen, because
there are so many who are fascinated by divisive, small-minded,
mean-spirited thoughts that seem to have a lot of energy to them. Yes,
they have energy, and it&rsquo;s an energy very different from the
energy of Love. It&rsquo;s an energy very different from the energy of
Soul. It&rsquo;s an energy very different from harmony. And you know
what? If harmony isn&rsquo;t going on, the answer isn&rsquo;t the bold
use of inharmony, of force, but rather the persistent expression of that
which is educational, of that which is true and is so clearly expressed
that it attracts attention and agreement, because the benefit of it is
healing.

You notice that the one who is promoting the dissension is not being met
with much objection. This is wrong. Correction is called for. Are you,
the students of truth, the students of A Course in Miracles, the Sons
and Daughter of God who have some comprehension of what those words
mean, do you have the courage and the willingness to bring commitment to
declaring the truth? To not remaining silent, or managing somehow to
slough off any substantive responses when the subject comes up in
discussion? Oh, you know, remain silent and do not object &hellip; and
you will find yourselves slowly being guided in mass into the gas
chambers or behind a wall provided, of course, for your safe keeping
from the rest of &ldquo;the bastards&rdquo; out there.

It is not time to be silent. It is not time to be aloof. It is not time
to be uninvolved. It&rsquo;s not time to be in a false sense of peace
within yourself by saying, &ldquo;Oh, God will take care of
everything,&rdquo; or &ldquo;Oh, this too shall pass away.&rdquo; What
you don&rsquo;t want to have you must disavow your support of. You must
withdraw your support from it and replace it with correction.

Evil is just you saying nothing when human will is undermining your
willingness to practice the two-step, the holy instant, and to listen
for the truth until you hear it and then act upon it as it reveals to
you what steps to take. I will assure you that the steps will not be
ongoing silence.

If a child in elementary school writes two plus two equals five on his
math paper, his teacher will not say nothing. His teacher will say,
&ldquo;No, Johnny, look again here: two plus two equals four,&rdquo; and
she may take two blocks and two blocks and put them together and ask him
to count them up so that he can see that two plus two equals, one, two,
three, four. She takes the time to educate. She takes time to draw a
picture so-to-speak, to illuminate the idea, to amplify the idea of the
truth of the fact that two plus two equals four.

So you see, this is all very important. Every single one of you has a
Gift to make. And you&rsquo;re being called upon to make it every time
you turn on the television, no matter where you are in the world, and
see the news about what&rsquo;s happening in the electoral process in
the United States, because what&rsquo;s happening there affects
everywhere. And everyone everywhere practicing the holy instant,
connecting with their right Mind, makes a difference in the United
States.

You have an inconvenient call to make the Gift. It&rsquo;s coming
whether you are ready or not. It&rsquo;s here whether you feel equal to
it or not. And of course, you will not be equal to it as a tiny,
small-minded, independent thinker. And if you identify yourself as that,
you will feel incompetent and overwhelmed. But that won&rsquo;t be the
truth, it will just be the effect of the perspective you&rsquo;re
choosing to use.

Change the perspective by saying, &ldquo;I of myself can do nothing.
Father, what is the truth here. I don&rsquo;t even care to think that I
have a capacity to do anything to correct it all by myself. So, Father,
I lean into Your Love. I allow myself to collapse off of the cliff,
where I no longer let my legs hold me up, where I no longer to use any
part of me to hold me up and I ask You, Father, what is the truth? What
is Your perspective, because I have learned, at least intellectually,
that my Function is to glorify You. My Function is to live Your Vision.
And so I&rsquo;m going to neglect to hold myself up any further. And
I&rsquo;m going to lean over, I&rsquo;m just going to not put forth the
effort to stand up straight any longer, and I&rsquo;m going to collapse
over the edge into Your infinite Love and Your infinite perspective,
which You give to me &hellip;gave to me &hellip; continually give to me
in the act of Creation, giving me the responsibility to acknowledge You
in it and not suppose that I&rsquo;m supposed to be responsible for
It.&rdquo;

Do not make your mark on a piece of paper that doesn&rsquo;t promote the
truth. Else I promise you, you will find yourself faced with the
emergencies that will cause you to allow yourself to fail, to be
humiliated as an ego and end up rediscovering your humility, and in your
humbleness, find the Father filling you once again so full that it will
all be transformed in the twinkling of an eye. But I&rsquo;m telling
you, you don&rsquo;t have to have emergency be the thing that causes you
to change your mind and yield to the Father&rsquo;s Will and discover
the glory of coming Home again.

Truly, what is going on in the United States is going on in the world,
and it is everywhere in the world that each one of you needs to
rediscover who you Are and what your purpose is, and correct what calls
for correction by giving Voice to the Truth, the Truth that turns
everyone once again to the Father&rsquo;s Love, the Father&rsquo;s
Presence, the omnipresence of Him, not as an idea but as an
experience&mdash;a profound experience.

Truly, what&rsquo;s going on right now in the world is just about all
the emergency you should need to have to get you to get your attention
and to get you to stand up and be the presence of the correction under
the Father&rsquo;s Guidance through the loving practice of educating and
illuminating everyone with the Truth that counteracts this preoccupation
with hate and fear.

That&rsquo;s what&rsquo;s called for. That&rsquo;s the inconvenient call
for the Gift that no one feels ready for, but everyone has the capacity
to address.

I love you all, and I want you to be conscious enough and Awake enough
to love each other likewise, no matter what the color of your skin, no
matter what your religion, no matter how screwed up you&rsquo;ve been.
That&rsquo;s the truth that transforms.

I look forward to being with you next time.

1 Cor.13:12 
2Luke 22:42


