---
 title: Abandoning Thinking 2
 audiofn: Abandoning_Thinking_2
---

## {{page.title}}

I know that I of myself can do nothing because I all by myself. Do not
exist. The eye that thinks it's all by itself is a figment of uh
imagination. And so I'm willing to be in the place where I am nothing
all by myself. I will abandon being the orphan, that is nothing. And I
invite my father back into the picture. Father, help me. Father, reveal
to me. The knowing That reveals Truth and perfection and reality to me.
Fill me today with all thou art. I'm willing to take my place as your
son or your daughter. I'm willing to take my place as your offspring.
Reflecting you. And I will care enough about my brother. That I will
hold him guiltless. Because I'm willing to acknowledge that right where
he is, you, Father, must be. If you weren't there, there couldn't seem
to be anything there at all. And so I'm willing to bless him. Rather
than curse him with my judgment and projecting guilt on him. What is the
truth here, Father? Reveal To me Reveal yourself to me and my brothers
and sisters. Help me to see you in them. So that I might look at them
and remember you, which is my function. I'm through Feeling the
dissonance of my daring to think. I withdraw my willingness to project
my discomfort caused by my thinking upon my brother and making him
guilty for it and trying to prove it to him so that I can make him
change his behavior. So that I can feel better. I am going to choose to
abandon the thinking, which is the culprit by abandoning thinking
itself. And going into the silence. To that place Of silence within me.
To the altar in a little gap between memory. And imagination. And
listening And I will be quiet now. OK. The reason, out of all the
possible things that you could do, the reason that this one thing is
your function is because it's the way you come back home. Everything
that confronts you is geared toward. You're waking up. You are your
brother's salvation, and your brother is your salvation. Many of you
like the place in the course where it says that a time will come when
you will lay your body aside. The visibility and tangibility. Of God.
The visibility and tangibility of creation will never be laid aside.
What will be laid aside is the intent that each of you thinks you have
to have false definitions about all of creation. those aside. The
movement of love. Is the movement of creation. Engage in it. This does
not have to take a long time. You can just stop outside the post office.
And bless those who walk past you. Bless your brothers and sisters. And
bless yourselves. I love you. You are all Mightily supported. In your
experience of the atonement. Let the experience of being actively loved.
Yeah

