---
 title: Above All Else I Want to See Your Vision
 audiofn: Above_All_Else_I_Want_to_See_Your_Vision
---

## {{page.title}}

You say father. God Whatever word you want to use. You say father? Stay
with me. And help me be in this place. Help me Not suddenly slip and
abandon you. Let me not forget about being joined with you. So that when
Apparent challenges. come my way I will stay with you and look at it
from this piece. Which is inseparable from Our joining. So that I might
Live through What comes up In ways that identify Peace and fulfillment
and nothing else. Because I really want to exist differently than the
way I have been existing. Above all else I want to see differently. I
want to see minus. My conditioned responses to what I see. I want to see
beyond my best judgments about everything. I want to see everything.
Through your vision. I want to see everything through your vision. Jesus
Which is your gift to me? From God. Now, this is A little bit more
intimate and personal. Expression Of what you find in the book of John
and the Bible. That says, let that mind be in you. Which was also in
Christ Jesus. It's more intimate and personal because you're saying to
Jesus. I want to see everything through your vision. Which is your gift
to me. From God And I am Asking you, I am encouraging you, I am inviting
you. To go through your day every day. With this attitude. Above all
else. I want to see. The more Above all else, above all else that I'm
engaged in at the moment in my daily life, I want to see differently. I
want to see the more that is there. And that is above all else. I want
to see. Everything through your vision. To risk the chance that looking
at everything through your vision, which is your gift to me from God.
Well Well Annihilate Thin Disease And death Which will annihilate
vulnerability. Which will uncover to you your Incapacity to be hurt,
harmed, damaged. To risk the chance that If you actually were willing to
join with Jesus and see through Christ's vision, That war will end, that
all kinds of in harmony will end. And I will be quiet now as you
continued. Ah, OK. This is The divine event. Embodying the fullness of
the perfection of the love that God is being. That it is an awesome
event. That will be far from dull. That will be more satisfying than the
word satisfaction has ever meant to you before. I love you. You are all
Mightily supported. In your experience of the atonement. Don't go
through this week. Feeling That you're doing it all by yourself. Let the
experience of being actively loved. In OK.

