---
 title: Action of Love
 audiofn: Action_of_Love
---

## {{page.title}}

Assume that you don't know, you're going to have to even acknowledge
that you don't know, and you're going to have to be willing to allow for
the fact that you personally don't need to know. So that you might
abandon all attempts to know on your own and Take the time. To become
still within yourself and ask. What do I need to say? What is the
appropriate response? What would you say, Father? Or ask the Holy Spirit
or ask your guide. Or ask me And then because you don't know. What the
appropriate response should be. You share the response you get. And what
you get in one circumstance might be Sit down, close your mouth, and be
still for a moment. Which might not sound gentle or loving. Or pacifying
But for that individual, it will be perfect. Because that individual is
feeling very scattered, very disconnected, very unstable, and needs
direction at that very moment, clear simple direction. To follow so that
that individual. Can become disentangled from all of the confusion.
Somebody else might look at that and say, oh, you're being very
controlling. How can that be healing? You see, When the fact is that
it's not controlled at all. It's the presentation of that which meets
the need for someone who at the moment doesn't have the inner strength
and discipline. To provide those simple directions for themselves. So
sometimes what you end up saying Won't sound sweet. And other times
where the circumstances might seem to be quite the same. And you are
dealing with an unruly individual. What you might find yourself saying
is I love you and walking up and giving a hug, even though the
individual has been displaying aggressive physical characteristics. And
that will be What helps that one. To soften Settle down, become quiet.
And accomplish or end up doing. What the words Sit down, shut up. You
see, And this takes trust. But if you don't dare, To inquire if you
don't dare to turn to the altar. And make your connection there. Then
Firmness or softness. Expressed It is just a manipulation arising out of
ignorance and one's best assumption. Of what will work. And without the
unction of love, there will be no transformation. You will not be a real
agent for change.

