---
 title: Adopted image
 audiofn: Adopted_image
---

## {{page.title}}

My control can take over everything that does not matter, and my
guidance can direct everything that does. If And it's a big if, or it's
a little if. If You are willing To yield up control. If you are willing
to abandon autonomy. If you are willing to devalue. Your own personal
authority. And only use enough of that so-called authority to say to me.
I choose to let you guide me. I choose to yield to your guidance. I
choose to act. Upon the influx of clarity. That will come When I stop
insisting on asserting an authority that I think I have. It's utterly
simple. To the ego, it seems to cost a lot. But you know what, you're
not your egos. Your egos are just a picture. that you have adopted. But
you aren't the picture you've adopted. You are that which has adopted
the picture. And the you that has adopted the picture is still. The son
or daughter of God, still the direct expression of God in this very
moment. It's the you that has the real ear right in the middle of the
kingdom of heaven hearing me right in the middle of the kingdom of
heaven speaking to you. Even though What you're hearing is getting
translated into the dream you're currently dreaming. Everything that you
think is what doesn't matter. And I can take care of that. All the
definitions that you have given to everything that have biased your
perception of what it truly is. I can take care of. If you shall choose
exactly. First of all, what does matter? is creation itself. What does
matter is what is really going on. My control can take over everything
that does not matter while my guidance. Can direct everything that does.
What do you think my guidance is? My guidance is what the father is
saying to me. You see? And my father can direct everything that does
matter. And my guidance to you when you were listening to me. Is the
guidance I'm relaying to you from the Father.

