---
 title: All in your hands
 audiofn: All_in_your_hands
---

## {{page.title}}

Don't worry, none of you will abandon your well established habits
suddenly. And the control. To Your Practice of your habit. is not in
anyone else's hand. What that means is that it's all up to you. I can't
do it. The father can't do it. No one can do it but you. So you don't
have to be afraid of anyone else. waking you up before you're ready. And
The awareness of this fact. Putting the responsibility squarely on your
shoulders. Means that You are empowered That you're not at the mercy of
anything at all except your choices. What you choose to be committed to.
Now there's something else to remember. And that is that life is the law
of being. Therefore, you have no choice but to experience life because
God is being you. As his infinite and eternal self-expression. So Since
you have no other choice. But existence You have no other choice but
life. You can choose for your current habit. For as long as you wish.
And you can create with your imagination apparently successive
lifetimes. Which is an interminable. Or eternal experience of being.
Artificially marked with start and stop times, if you will. It's still
pure being. Without variance. Imagined to be broken up. Into a series of
successive life experiences. My point is this. Life is the law of being.
Therefore, you have no other experience available to you. And that, that
experience of life is interminable. You have total power as to how
you're going to experience this interminable life. And you govern how
you're going to experience it by means of the definitions you choose to
give to everything or by means of Inquiring of God what the real meaning
is of all of these things. Just begin being the presence of love and
caring in the little things each day, realizing that you have the
capacity to be an agent for change. And in the little things, look to
see God there. You only do what you love. You are always doing what you
love. The shift that needs to occur. is to start doing what is loving.
You only do what you love to do. So somewhere along the line, you will
arrive at a point where you no longer love to practice safe fear in all
of its awful apparent consequences. And you decide that you would love
to do something else. The very fact that you're listening to me today
means you've already arrived at a point where You do want to love
something else. Fear is not creative. Love is. So you need to have a new
object of your affection. You want to experience the truth. You want to
experience the fact that You're right in the middle of the kingdom of
heaven. You, you need to want to come out and play with us. But nobody
can make you do it. Oh We could try to come in, grab you by the arm,
drag you out of the closet, bring you out into the glory of the kingdom
of heaven. But you wouldn't stay there because you didn't come there
from your own intent. You didn't come there because that's what you
loved to do. That's what you loved giving your attention to. You're the
ones who walked away from home. You might say you're the ones who turned
your back on it or closed your eyes to it and said, I would rather
imagine the way it is myself. And you must reverse that and come back.
And as I said, the way you reverse it. is by Being willing to
acknowledge. That there's more to everything you're experiencing than
what you're currently experiencing. Realizing that allows you then to
desire to experience it. Put your own love, your own intent. Behind it
Because that's the way you open the door to your closet. Then You bring
into play a practice of caring, realizing that you have the capacity to
be an agent for change. Which means that you have to go through your
day. Realizing that you have the capacity to bless. Your brothers and
your sisters and your world. By approaching it from the place of
excellence that's in you.


