---
 title: All the rest of you
 audiofn: All_the_rest_of_you
---

## {{page.title}}

You're all blessed with. Humongous Attention. Those of the brotherhood
who are awake stand. At the ready To respond to you. The moment you have
interest in Connection And it's a simple fact that the more honest you
are, With yourself, about yourself so that you present that honesty to
us. Truly The more specific and transformational the answer can be. Your
honesty. Constitutes a defenselessness. That's one of the reasons
honesty is so wonderful. When you're defended you. Color The truth Of
your self expression. With some defense. So Your honesty Lays the
groundwork for the greatest movement forward. In terms of your
transformation. The more you open the door, The more light can come in.
You have a lot of help available to you. And what that amounts to is
that The light is shining outside of your little prison. Door And it
stands there constantly ready to shine upon you and warm you and Embrace
you and touch you and Provide you with the feeling. Of safety All you
have to do is crack the door open and peek out and say, hello. Hello.
And we will come in And we will meet you where you are. With just what
you can receive. And with It presented to you in such a way that you
will inevitably feel safe. To open the door a little wider. Because your
freedom is our goal. And it's not only us who stands ready. On your
behalf. Your divinity Stands ready The Greater ignored part of yourself
that you're not accessing. Because you want to have your private.
Personal sense of things. It, it is constantly. Gnawing, you might say
at the walls you have put up to keep that part of yourself outside. And
it stands ready. To serve you In coming back into your right mind. And
it's called the Holy Spirit. So there's all of the brotherhood. And
there's the disowned, ignored part of yourself. It stands ready. And
even insistent. Upon penetrating the walls you have built. Even though
it can't enter without your permission. I'm talking to you about your
Taking a step that breaks your isolation. Where you At a point where
you're saying help, which is an invitation. For a wisdom beyond the one
you've created for yourself or imagined for yourself. can register with
you. And it's ultimately all the rest of you that you have been
ignoring. And in the all the rest of you that you let in. Comes The
translation of your world into the kingdom of heaven that it's been all
along. And The transformation of your mind. By the rest of your capital
and mind. Which means The direct experience of God. And the light The
illumination The clarity. The meaningfulness. That will come forth from
you as a result of your individually turning to that place of excellence
in yourself and letting your expression be excellent. Will Cause you to
experience your oneness. It's the original oneness. Where you recognize
each other. Because you find yourself in them. And they find themselves
in you. And there's no sense of distance. And you enjoy. Embodying
Excellence. And God is glorified. God is embodied. As everyone's
conscious experience. I love you. Love yourselves. And love each other
And remember Go to the place of excellence in you first. So they're
loving each other. Arises from You're caring enough. To embody what is
excellent. Truly excellent. With no inclination. To add some little
personal touch. To it So as to be able to get a little bit of personal
satisfaction out of your critique.

