---
 title: All in Mind
 audiofn: All_in_Mind
---

## {{page.title}}

If you hadn't turned from the altar and spirit had not been turned into
matter apparently and eternity had not been changed into time and space,
all you would have had to do would be to shift your attention from earth
to moon, and you would be there because it's all in you. Earth, moon
planets, stars, galaxies. You are all resident in the mind that you are
because mind is the ground of your being, the body is not the ground of
your being. You are observing everything with your mind even now while
you think you are viewing it from your body. The minute spirit was
translated into matter. You all became subject to what you Subsequently
decided Were the laws of matter. Which you call physics and call a
science. But at this moment, none of you are bound by those laws because
those laws are imaginary. And force is not needed to get from here to
there, whether it's from home to work or from Earth to the moon. I bring
this out so that you will not give as much credibility. To the laws of
physics. And so that you might come to understand the power of mind.
Which involves no force whatsoever. It takes no energy. To shift your
attention from one idea to another, does it? Likewise, it takes no
energy or force. To be present, intimately present with the surface of
the moon. And then instantaneously present with the surface of the
earth. Because the only thing that has to shift is attention, not
matter.

