---
 title: Answering the call
 audiofn: Answering_the_call
---

## {{page.title}}

You accept the call for love. Because It calls to you. And you get to
work. And you find it important enough. To be that place. Where God can
be embodied. You could look at it this way. You could look at it as
though you have all been. Healers held in trust. For the occasion where
healing was called for. Now If I said to you that you were all ordained
by God to be healers, Your egos would like that. And you at a deeper
level might find that inspiring. But remember you are the salvation of
the world. That's your function. And so the call for love is calling for
you to fulfill your function. And You've got to abandon the desire to
have A dreamy state in which to be the presence of love. An idyllic
state in which to be the presence of love. Because the presence of love
is called for. Where love seems to have been lost and people are
behaving as though they are not loved and love is not available to them
and it's your function. To Show them otherwise. So what can I say? It's
time to roll up your sleeves and answer the call and stop wishing for
some better circumstance in which to be the presence of love. Once you
begin to feel your function. As the presence of love embodying in the
world. The stresses of the call for love. Will stop distracting you from
the pleasure of being the place where love is embodied. And where those
calling for love can find safety and security. So that they can dare. To
feel love and be able to extend it. Hey, If you want to be Able to Be
the presence of love in the middle of peace. Come on home to the kingdom
of heaven. Come on home and be with us who are awake. Because There you
can have the pleasant experience of being the presence of love. Where
the presence of love is needed is where the call for love is being made.
And that's where all of you are. Standing in receipt of the call for
love. Having been called out of um Inactive duty as healers. To be in
active duty. Whoa, uh, that's, uh, that looks like it might require a
little bit of effort. That's uh that's gonna change my routine, I'll
tell you. But you know what the routine you've been in is the one that
has promoted the dream. And the effort you're going to have to put forth
is one which, if you put it forth, will disclose to you a capacity and
the strength to be the presence of love that you didn't realize that you
had and you will find it to be effortless, not more effort. And that's
the way a new habit will emerge. A new way of being all the time.
Because it's not only your birthright, it's your function, and it's your
joy. At the bottom line, it is your joy. You don't see it yet. But it's
awaiting you. But It's going to take conscious, conscientious attention.
And uh That won't be A wonderful dreamy experience. It'll be a vital
fulfilling experience. Not ego fulfilling, but fulfilling because for
you it will be the experience of the presence of God in you. That shines
away any ego satisfaction that you might have thought you would have
from such an experience. One which Let's God stand forth. And
demonstrates to you what you are. As what God is choosing for you to be.
Which is where your full satisfaction and full joy of being lies.

