---
 title: Apple on your nose
 audiofn: Apple_on_your_nose
---

## {{page.title}}

You need to remind yourself. Daily That you have a friend. And you need
to remember that this friend has a God-given task. And that task is to
release you. Into your freedom. Release you into your birthright.
Release you into the conscious experience of what you really are. The
thing to remember is That in that release, Something will be undone.
Something will be undone. That never happened. Now, We've got to make
that make sense. Let us suppose that you've gone. To a hypnotist's show.
And let's say that you were invited to come up on the stage. And the
hypnotist said to you, after hypnotizing you. That the next time you
said the word television, An apple would appear on the end of your nose,
and absolutely nothing you could do would make it disappear. In fact, He
tells you that This has always been the case with everybody. Anytime
anyone says the word television, and Apple appears on the end of their
nose, that they can't get off. In other words, it's as though this is
the way the universe works. And so, The show is over and you go home and
somewhere in the next couple of days you happen to say the word
television and boom you see an apple attached to the end of your nose,
heavy, unsightly, and immediately when the apple appeared, you also knew
and you don't know where you got this knowing from, but you Found
yourself knowing that of course you had a green apple on your nose that
wouldn't come off because you said the word television and whenever
anybody says the word television, a green apple or an apple appears on
the end of their nose that they can't get off. So now you know something
happened which hasn't happened. And you know why it happened, because it
always happens. It's the way the universe works. Well, You can
understand That getting rid of this apple, releasing you from the
inconvenience of having an apple stuck on the end of your nose. is an
undoing of something that never happened. It's easy for you to see that.
But let's say that you notice a lump in your breast. And it's a green
apple. Is it real? Is it God derived? Or is it an illusion? That you are
believing. And experiencing The evidence of Which still is no more real
than the apple on the end of your nose that the hypnotist said would
appear. As a post hypnotic suggestion. Well, everyone, This is the way
it is. You are here to be released by your friend. Which is the Holy
Spirit, which is nothing more than your right mind, your sanity. Your
best friend is here to release you. From a belief. that you have
accepted as real. And which you think you have no way to deny or get
beyond because, quote, it's the way the universe works. Well, I'm sorry,
it's not the way the universe works. The apple Can be deaf. I'm here to
tell you That death is an illusion. Don't buy it. Everybody says, oh,
well. Death is a part of life. In fact, there are some that have
reasoned it out that death is just simply a transition from Let's say
like water moving from a solid as ice to liquid from form to fluid
formlessness. It's like a wave and particle theory where waves are like
light and particles are like matter and life and death are a shift from
from particle to wave and My goodness. There's a whole explanation. Just
like the explanation that said, hey, if you say the word television.
You'll end up with an apple on your nose. Well, the explanation doesn't
make it true. The fact that you can come up with an explanation and even
carry it further and say that this movement from particle to wave, from
solid to liquid, from definite to indefinite is not only the way life
works, but it's a way of refining your soul. And every time you're in
the particle experience, you have a chance to pick up where you left off
and work toward your ultimate. State Of divinity we'll say. Now If you
believe these things, Your friend won't have a chance with you. Because
your friend is going to come along and say, The apple stuck on the end
of your nose isn't there at all. And I want you to let go of the
definite belief you have about it, and I want you to see beyond it. I
want you to see beneath it. I want you to be willing to let it go. I
want you to stop being frustrated by its presence. I want you to stop
reacting to it. Because all the energy you bring to reacting to it makes
it seem more real to you, more definite, and more stuck. I want you to
be curious to see the more of what God is being right there where the
apple is. Then what you're seeing. I want you. To let me reveal to you
what the truth is here. Every moment It is a perfect opportunity to have
a shift of perception. And the most perfect times to have shifts of
perception is when you're disturbed. Because when you are disturbed, By
your own thoughts or the negative thoughts of others. You become hooked
and obsessed with energizing. Your concern and your distress. And that
holds the problem. Squarely in front of you, even though, because it was
not placed there by the movement of creation, it's not actually there.
Now I understand That this stretches. You Because you're so very sure of
things. When you said television and the apple is on your nose, you're
sure of it. If you feel a lump here or there or an injury here or there,
you know it. It's a fact for you. But if your friend is going to have
any success in releasing you from a bondage that never actually
happened, you're going to have to be willing right in the face of your
fear or your concern or your distress. To stop and be willing to stand
back. And say, what's the more of what God is being here than what I'm
experiencing? I have a feeling this can't be the ultimate. And I want to
know what the truth is. Where birth and death both are swallowed up in a
sudden shift of perception in which Unchangeable life. is my experience.
Now, you trap yourselves, as I've said before, by your words. Oh, I cut
myself. And your word becomes law, and you react and you make that word
real. Oh, he ran into that wall at 60 miles an hour. Wow. And that has
meaning for you, disastrous meaning. It doesn't have to have that
meaning. You could say He ran into that wall at 60 miles an hour and
came out the other side without losing a fraction of a mile an hour and
arrived at his destination on time. Your belief is That a wall is an
impediment to movement. It's not. But your belief makes it a fact for
you, and you don't challenge it. And when you say he ran into the wall
or you say I'm gonna, I'm gonna run into that wall and I'm going 60
miles an hour, it doesn't have to mean the end. It simply means that
you're gonna go through the wall at 60 miles an hour and continue on and
arrive at your destination. Now, You've got to be willing to look at
these. Challenges or these suggestions or invitations that present
themselves to you every day of negativity of death of sin of sickness of
suffering of deterioration. You've got to be willing to face them. With
a spontaneous willingness to see a different answer than the one you
normally would declare. And by your own words bind yourself. And you
have a friend. Whose task it is, whose pleasure it is. To share with you
the vision that undoes the bondage. That seems inevitable to you.
Because the inevitability is part of the belief of it. It's time to get
beyond these absolute convictions that you have, you must be willing to
challenge them and challenge them with a light heart. Challenge them
with a curiosity. That you direct toward this friend. Which is really
nothing more than your right mind. The presence of God that actually
constitutes you. And you've got to start doing this regularly with joy,
with, with really substantial interest. Because it really is time to
discover. The things that have never happened. So that you're left with
what's really there instead of what you think happened. All of this is
about. Undoing what never happened. And the only way you're going to
arrive at the conscious experience of the fact that it didn't happen. is
by your willingness to withdraw your conviction that it did, and that
you know what the happening meant, and you know why it happened and you
know why the results are inevitable and why you can't possibly become
free from them. Stop it. Stop engaging in this. Don't bind yourself
anymore by your words. Take your words. Take these thoughts that come to
you. To your friend Because these thoughts cover something up. These
thoughts put the truth. In a hidden place where the truth becomes a
secret that nobody knows. The truth that's covered up is your birthright
to be experiencing. It's time to find out that sin, sickness, and death
is not real and did not ever happen. Every moment is a perfect moment to
become free of illusion. Unbound. And in your right mind. Let's face it,
If the Holy Spirit is nothing more than your right mind, then It's bound
to be his purpose to reveal himself to you as you. Because that's the
only thing that will bring the integrity of your being back into play.
The Holy Spirit Hasn't stopped. Being your friend with the intent. To
fulfill its promise, to fulfill its purpose. The Holy Spirit's purpose
is to lay the clear understanding of what you are at the altar of your
being, which is the altar of God. And reveal you to yourself. So that
you might be Come unconfused. Again, it's time to become unstuck. From
what isn't true and therefore never happened. But you don't know how to
distinguish. Between what is real and what isn't. And that's why you
have a friend that can. And that's why that friend's purpose is to
disclose the difference to you so that you can discard what isn't
serving you. And which you Find no benefit in. So again, all we're ever
doing is undoing what never happened. And it is accomplished by getting
you to be willing to look at everything. With a curiosity to know what
the truth is about it. Instead of being confident yourself and giving
the word yourself and becoming bound by it. Because you know, this is
the way the universe works. Separation never happened. It's one of those
things. It never happened. You believe it happened, you believe you've
lived a life separated, not connected with God. And having to somehow
gain his respect and gain his love by Somehow overcoming your
sinfulness. Are you beginning to see? How practical it is. To challenge
being old, unquote, to challenge the meanings you've given to it, to
challenge the meanings everyone else has given to it. That has caused,
for lack of better words, uh, a hypnotic suggestion that everybody is
obedient to. And so they walk around, like the one with an apple on his
nose, behaving like they're old and having the expectations that old
people have. And not having expectations that 18 year olds have. Or 30
year olds. And not engaging in the things that a 40 year old would
gladly tackle. Well, I'm not gonna be here long enough to finish that
project. No point in starting that. Well, you see the foot go sink into
the ground on its way into the grave. Stop Giving your definitions and
start asking. How do I be 70 years old? How do I be 90 years old and
Feel like tackling A new project with Gusto. How do I let go of the
doubts that are instilled in me? That say it's useless. To take on a new
project at 90 years old. Start asking these questions of who? Of that
which is nothing more than your right mind. Your sanity. It's there for
you. It is there with a Cause It's there with a promise to fulfill, a
promise made to God. It is the purpose of your mind, your right mind. To
uncover and bring forth you in your right mind no longer bound by.
Strange ideas. Everything about your being. is geared toward your
regaining your sanity and becoming free of that which never happened
even though your education has said all of what never happened did
indeed happen and is going to continue to happen. It's an ongoing cycle
of life, period. No ands, ifs or buts. If you do not abandon the right
you think you have to think for yourself and come to conclusions on your
own. You will not benefit from this friend and will not experience. The
return of your sanity. So as you're willing to invite this friend, To
reveal to you what the truth is here and here and here and here. You are
inviting The opening in you. That will allow you to Move into The very
depths of the movement of creation with the Father. in which your
eternal life is known by you. And the idea of age and all the beliefs
associated with it mean nothing. And where the belief of having an apple
stuck on your nose or illnesses or death or deterioration also mean
nothing, and all of these things will mean nothing right here. Right
where you are. Because you'll see the chair as it really is, and you'll
see your fingernails and your body as it really is. As creation itself.
Which is immutable, unchangeable, not subject to death, able to pass
through walls like a speeding bullet. Experience no impediments. So as I
said last week, take every apparently innocuous moment, every seemingly
regular moment. And be curious because It speaks of God and it speaks of
creation. Because that's what it is. And it's your birthright to be
experiencing it for what it is, and to find out that what you thought it
was never happened. Therein lies your freedom, your healing. Your
blessing, your awakening. And I wish you A glorious week. I love you
all.

