---
 title: Arena for Love
 audiofn: Arena_for_Love
---

## {{page.title}}

Any teaching that says the world doesn't exist. Or this is all an
illusion. If the meaning of those words isn't carefully and wisely
sought out. You will discount. The very arena in which Love can be
extended. The very place where all of this spiritual talk. has
relevance. And the opportunity is missed. Not only to be
transformational for your brother, but you miss the opportunity. To find
Your capacity. For persistence. Your capacity. For walking the extra
mile, the extra 100 miles, your capacity. To make such commitment to
your brother or sister that you never ever have to abandon them again.
Forever. Ah, now we're talking about transformation, aren't we? of you?
But hey, this is where the glory is. I don't mean the glory of God. I
mean, here is where the gloriousness of existing. Awaits your
experience. I said love your brother as I have loved you, love your
brother. Don't love the truth more than your brother. Because the truth
doesn't mean shit. If it has no relevance to your brother and if it has
no relevance to you. And if truth is I imagined to be different from
Your brother and sister. It becomes a harsh taskmaster. That will grind
your very sense of your own humanity down. Until it crumbles. And you
become a hard hearted. Teacher of irrelevance. And I have chosen my
words well. So that you might understand. Exactly what I mean. And so
that you might grasp the fact. That truth is not meant. To be that which
separates you from your brothers and sisters. But rather it is. That
which is revealed to you. Truth is revealed to you. When you're willing
to remember. That the only reason your brother or sister comes into your
experience is to have his or her divinity recognized. Truth is a
revelation. And it's the revelation of that which is real in your fellow
man. So that in that experience of it you can bear witness to the truth
about your fellow man. As I have loved you love one another. And even
when it pushes your limits, even when it seems to require you to go
beyond your capacity to persevere and to love. Be willing to do it
because they deserve it. Just as you deserve it. I love you. And I'm
speaking firmly so that You might You might get the feel for how much I
love you. And how important it is to me for you. To be less confused
about yourselves. So that you won't suffer from ignorance about
yourselves, and so that you can gladly bear witness to that which is
true about you. And not require everyone else. To be willing to stand
and bear witness with you when you're being difficult.

