---
 title: Ascension
 audiofn: Ascension
---

## {{page.title}}

The only way to come back into your clear perspective of reality. is to
take each moment you're currently in. And embrace it with love.
Ascension suggests that you rise above and leave where you are now. But
you know what, ascension is really Your conscious movement into being
the presence of love. And your abandonment of any justification. For
hate or anything less than love. If you want to not die, If you want to
come back into your divine sanity. You will, as I've been saying all day
today. Take advantage of every opportunity. Every Part of your days.
Take advantage of them as the opportunity. To be present with it, with
the desire to experience what it divinely is, what more might it be?
Then The definition you have of it. Bring your curiosity into play. This
is the way. Ascension occurs. In a way, ascension can be thought of as
rising above the world. But all the world is. is The current way you're
perceiving the kingdom of heaven. The way to rise above or get beyond
your current definition is to be curious to see more than your current
definition with a willingness to have your current definition be totally
invalidated. So how do you do it? You love one another. You say What's
the experience of the fullness of God there? What is God being right
there? What is, what is the divine meaning? The divinely intelligent
meaning that's embodied there. Be willing to bring your attention to
simple things like roses. And ask, be curious and ask. Because it has
divine and holy meaning. Incredible meaning. Truly incredible meaning.
And you know what it wants you. To recognize it for what it truly is. It
doesn't want you to miss out on the fullness of God's expression that it
is. Love one another Love everything. Be willing to be present with it
no matter how inconsequential it might be. Be curious. want the
experience of truth, not the knowledge of it, not the idea of it, but
the direct experience and do it with every moment of your day. Blow my
mind to God. Become defenseless against Increasing clarity.

