---
 title: Ask for healing
 audiofn: Ask_for_healing
---

## {{page.title}}

The only thing you have the capacity to do is to allow healing to
happen. You will never have a personal capacity to heal anything. And
And this should be a relief to you. Because if you're not responsible
and cannot be responsible for a healing, then you can't goof it up. The
only need you have. is to ask for healing. Ask the Father. Ask. The Holy
Spirit, ask your guide, even, even if you don't have communication with
your guide at the moment. Ask for help. Every night when you go to bed.
Ask that the time you spend sleeping be utilized for regeneration.
Whether you hear an answer or not. I promise you that your request will
be responded to. Indeed, you can also ask for anything that you need to
see. In order for the healing to be consummated. To be brought to your
attention. It is not necessary for you to try to figure out. What
beliefs or what mistakes. Might have been responsible for the problem.
In fact, if you try to find them, you will use your poorest sense of
yourself. With which to look for the reasons. Which will cause any
reasons you find. To be to your distinct disadvantage. I mean, I mean by
that that um Because you will look for the reasons with a poor sense of
yourself. Whatever reasons you come up with will speak even more poorly
of you. And this will only Confound the problem. So you ask for your
guide or the Holy Spirit or the Father to bring to your attention.
Anything that you might need to be conscious of so that you can
consciously release it. Because then only what will contribute to the
healing. It will be illuminated to you and it will be illuminated in a
way that doesn't condemn you. So that your release of it will be easy
because you won't, uh, you won't be having to contend with a sense of
guilt as well. The other thing I want you to understand is that your
body Is the visibility and tangibility of your individuality. And your
individuality is God derived. In other words, God expressing Himself is
what constitutes your individuality. Your body is there to identify the
presence of God right there where you are perfectly. That is The way Its
existence was set into motion. It does not in and of itself have a
capacity. To identify you. Less than perfectly. So I want you to release
it from any concepts you are holding. That it is just a physical
organism that can be damaged and can't be repaired, blah blah blah. I
want you to release it from that. And begin to embrace it as that which
has the Intent to identify the presence of God right there where you are
perfectly. And that if you will release it from any false definition.
That you will find it fulfilling its function and that it will be
identified as healing. Don't ask God or the Holy Spirit or your guide.
To please heal this. Damaged hunk of flesh. Because it's not a damaged
hunk of flesh. It's the visibility and tangibility of your
individuality. Seen through a glass darkly. Seen incorrectly, seen
incompletely. But it forever stands ready to identify itself to you
perfectly as what the Father is being right there. It's your ally, not
your enemy to be overcome. Or not a faulty hunk of flesh to be
transformed by a miracle into a healthy hunk of flesh. That doesn't have
anything to do with God, you see what I'm saying. Your appraisal of your
body. had better start with what it divinely is rather than what you
have been educated to believe it is on the basis that It's just matter
and doesn't ultimately have anything to do with God. Or your divinity.
As you do that, your appraisal of your body will naturally involve more
and more appreciation and less and less fear.

