---
 title: Ask Our Father
 audiofn: Ask_Our_Father
---

## {{page.title}}

When you genuinely Insist upon. Stopping. Whatever processes you're in.
Whatever ego satisfying processes you're in. And you say, Father, You
reach out, in other words. Outside of your privacy, outside of your
imagined separateness, Father. What is the truth here? Not only that,
what is the truth here about my brother? My brother deserves more than
he's experiencing. He deserves to experience his birthright, which is
more than what he's experiencing. Help me mentor him. By revealing to me
how to be in his presence. I don't know how to do it. The holy instant
has not yet happened to me. Therefore, I'm going to stop trying to
create the holy instant. I'm going to shut up and in the silence I'm
going to let you fill me. With yourself which will constitute the holy
instant. Why? Because my brother has become more important to me. Than
me You want to give what meets the need. You want to give what actually
constitutes blessing. And you will not know what that is until you ask
God what it is by saying, Father, fill me. With what you would have me
be. In spite of what I think I want. In spite of what I think he or she
needs. I don't want to interfere. With being the perfect expression of
you, Father. Because I want to wake up. From the limitation and the
suffering. That I'm experiencing as a result of my Faith in and devotion
to. The idea of independence. The practice of the power of God. Is the
practice of letting God in and through you. By saying, Father, Show me
your perspective. Show me how you would have me be. Show me how to
reflect. All that is true about you and therefore all that is real about
me. So that I no longer engage in the expression of things that are not
real about me. And as a result, blind myself. To my capacity to mentor.
To my capacity to be A full-time philanthropist. Used the power of God,
but for one instant, and you will never deny it again. Who can deny the
presence of what the universe bows to? In appreciation and gladness.
Because I was willing to do the two-step. And say Yes, Father, I yield
to you. And your perspective, fill me with it. I am willing to take the
time. To be with my brother in a way that allows the truth to come
forth. Even if it is a little bit strenuous. Even if it takes time up
from other things I would rather be doing. I am beginning to realize
that the other things I would rather be doing don't involve involvement
with my brother. And therefore, do not involve anything that is
essential to my waking up. The other things I would rather do contribute
in no way to my salvation. In order to get the instructions, you've got
to be willing to say, hey. I I'm going to become a mentor. Hey, I'm
going to become a philanthropist. I'm going to change my mental
framework. So that my everyday includes a desire to notice. Needs that
my brother's having. And where I can be of help, I will. Set down what
I'm doing. And help involve myself with them. As I am led by virtue of
my listening.

