---
 title: Ask Ask Ask
 audiofn: Ask_Ask_Ask
---

## {{page.title}}

Yes, you have heard on occasion. And I encourage you now while you're
not in a dark night, to pursue the connection with your guide. Because
it is more difficult when you are experiencing stress or distress. It is
more difficult to establish the connection. But if the connection is
established, it remains established. What can you do when you're
experiencing an ongoing dark night? You must persist in asking for help,
and don't assume that God's getting tired of the same old story. God
rejoices when someone says help. Because that's breaking the isolation.
Now, almost everyone is getting help at being depressed these days. It
is a time of adjustment. It is, uh, I'm going to put it this way, it's a
time of growth and therefore growing pains, you might say. I'm and I'm
speaking globally as well as individually, and the growing pains are
being expressed. The distress of them is being expressed and in a way it
puts a dark cloud over everything. All of you are experiencing, and, and
this is on a global scale, are experiencing the suggestion of threat.
See, I didn't say you're experiencing threat. There is no such thing as
a threat. All there can be is a suggestion of threat. Like a hypnotist
makes suggestions, and you must pay attention so that you don't accept
the suggestion and make commitment to it and therefore bring your energy
to it, which is the only place that could get energy. And then By so
doing, embody it in the world. I encourage everyone to ask for help a
lot. And in the future, I want you to remember that today I said, The
Holy Spirit, the Father, your guide, me, we are all intent upon.
Registering our presence with you. So that you might be lifted up out of
the darkness, so that you might feel loved. And in the presence of that
love, recognize that your depression has no foundation. So that you
might let go of it. Remember that you're not alone and ask, ask, ask.
And then be willing to let in the answer. to let in the experience of
love. At those times, there is always a decreased sense of one's own
worth and therefore one's worthiness. And so one doesn't bother to ask.
Ask, ask, ask.

