---
 title: Asking for help 1
 audiofn: Asking_for_help_1
---

## {{page.title}}

When you arrive at that point of recognizing that you're incompetent,
And you're looking at it from the ego's vantage point. It is experienced
with fear. But then As it begins to dawn on you. That you really can't
solve the problem yourself, whatever it is. A realization occurs that if
you don't have the answer, It isn't necessary for you to have the
answer. And you have been suffering from a self-imposed requirement that
you always have the answer to everything. which you don't ever have. So
when you realize That The realization that you're incompetent, that you
don't have the answer. Is itself the answer. And that it means that
you're not supposed to have the answer. Then You can see that there can
be no penalty. For not having an answer that you were incapable of
having. And you realize, my God, all this time I've been trying to do
something that's impossible. In that realization, you can abandon trying
to do the impossible because it's clear to you that it is impossible.
There is the recognition that there is nothing you want to hide, even if
you could. You no longer want to hide your incompetence. Because it's a
jewel of a blessing. To you This step brings escape from fear. Again
Because it's utterly clear to you. That there can be no penalty. For
you're not being able to do something that you were never created to be
able to do. You cannot stay long. In the realization of your
incompetence. Without discovering that in your peace and your joy. And
your newfound awareness of your holiness. You still exist. In other
words, the world and you did not come to an end. What you have
experienced as need. Which you now realize you are incompetent to meet
and that you were never meant to meet on your own. You find yourself
wondering how is this need going to be met? Not How am I going to figure
out how this need is going to be met, but how is this need going to be
met? It's just a simple response. And it constitutes prayer. Because
you're asking the question, but you're not asking it of yourself. And
when that happens, the Holy Spirit responds, your guide responds.
Communion occurs. Realization happens. Isolation has been broken. And
this is one of the reasons that I'm constantly pointing you in the
direction of paying attention to your needs. Not so that you can figure
out how to solve them. But because Needs are the threshold of
clarification. Needs are the threshold. of further enlightenment. When
you recognize their existence. And honor them by not ignoring them. And
ask for help. Without leaning onto your own understanding, unquote. It
is certainly possible to do this more gracefully by consciously choosing
for it. Instead of letting circumstances force you into the corner where
it's so dark and The truth about you awaits you. You can invite. The
consciousness of the truth about you.

