---
 title: Asking for help
 audiofn: Asking_for_help
---

## {{page.title}}

When you thank God. For what he has always been being and for the
fullness that has always been yours. That is your way of acknowledging
the truth. The fact that you could never have been lacking. But But you
must be open to receive. And the receiving is going to be an
involvement. It's something that is given to you by the source of the
gift. That requires you to be consciously involved with the giver of the
gift. Because unless your isolation has been broken, And replaced by
communion by involvement. There's no healing. There's no answer to the
prayer. To say thanks beforehand. is another way of breaking the
isolation. And then once the isolation is broken, You ask for help. But
you don't stop there. You've asked for help. The help is immediate. And
so you listen for the help. Without coercion, without impatience.
Without being in a hurry. When you say in so many words, thy will be
done, if you're saying uh on your terms. And so you listen expecting an
answer. And you wait for the answer. Because that's where the completion
is. That's where the actual end of isolation happens. When the
connection occurs. You ask for help and you listen and you persist in
listening for the answer. Or for the evidence of the healing. How do you
best facilitate being able to hear you, you simply persist in listening.
With the expectation of an answer. If your help in terms of guidance was
assigned to you the moment you acted independently. Then you can count
on it, that the moment there's the slightest bit of interest expressed
on your part, you're going to get a response. You might say, your guide
has not waited all this time just to miss your call. It's reasonable to
expect an answer.

