---
 title: Atonement
 audiofn: Atonement
---

## {{page.title}}

What is atonement? It is the expression of forgiveness, and what that
means is that atonement is the expression. Of love, expressing the
truth. That is absent all judgment. It's what's embodied in the words
praising God. And when you look at your brother or sister, Acknowledging
the truth of them that's been revealed to you, you're praising God. And
there is no judgment present. No criticism No ego ploys. You are
glorifying God. That's what atonement is. That's what a mentor does as
I'm using the word tonight. A mentor glorifies God where someone else is
seeing something less than God where he is. A mentor inspires new
vision. New self awareness. A mentor inspires the experience of
innocence. Where it seemed that innocence had been lost forever. The
ability to work miracles is the potential. Of one who is willing to
approach his brother consciously from a mentoring place. The achievement
of the miracle is its expression. And the atonement Is the purpose,
because you know what? When you succeed in glorifying God where it
seemed that God was absent. The one in that place where it seemed that
God was absent. Cannot help but glorify God Himself. And extend the
glorification of God further. And another domino falls. This is all good
news. Mentoring. Involves in its definition the element of actual
caring. One can witness to the truth like an expression of a laundry
list. Which can be quite impersonal and uninvolved. And not bring into
play. The conscious act of caring. And so that is one of the reasons I'm
using the word mentor. Ultimately speaking, it's, it's a forever way of
being together. OK. I thank you for being with me.

