---
 title: Attractive nuisance
 audiofn: Attractive_nuisance
---

## {{page.title}}

If you are Caring enough to share whatever degree of inspiration you
have. And it is not heard. And you're left with the feeling that what
you're doing isn't working. Beware of the temptation. To become
defensive. If you think you have arrived at a point where you're not
able to inspire further. Then you simply haven't discovered the depth of
your capacity to be inspired. And You need more inspiration. And so
you're going to have to go to that. Point where the inspiration comes
forth to you first. And then if it's still not heard, If it's still not
received. You've got to ask yourself whether or not this lack of receipt
justifies your abandoning. The extension of love. And returning to The
mode of self-defense in which your body constantly feeds back to you
tension. Lack of good function. It tells you that you're out of balance.
There are people in your lives who play Catch Me If You Can with you.
Here I am. And you walk toward them and they disappear. They say, I want
some love, and you say, OK, I'm willing to extend some love, and then
They run away. They act out. The words I don't want your love. And so
it's a constant taunt, a constant baiting. This is not a justification
for you not to extend love, but you must resist the tendency or the
temptation to engage in the chase. Did you hear that? That doesn't mean
that you abandon the willingness to be the place where inspiration and
love can be extended. You don't run after somebody to give it to them
when their intent is to always be just out of reach. It would be better
for you to be like an ice cream truck. which is called an attractive
nuisance. The point is To be something so desirable that the one who
says, catch me if you can. On his or her own. Wants to come where you
are. To stand in receipt. It's a great temptation. When somebody Wines
and Tells their sad tale about how rough it is and implies. By sharing
it with you that they're doing something other than Taking up your time.
Just to hear the sadness of their story. And you respond. And they push
you away or they leave. Don't play into that. See it for what it is and
don't chase after them, but do not abandon your willingness. To be the
place where inspiration comes forth and the extension of caring is
present to be given. The question is, Does this behavior, does this
person's response constitute justification for me abandoning my peace,
my joy, and the lift of the inspiration? And the truth that I'm
experiencing and A body that's at peace. And isn't reporting back to me
tension. And lack of ease and dis ease. Does this behavior justify My
giving up My being Innocent my being. Unconflicted My being In harmony
With existence. And if you decide that the hit of getting justice or
succeeding in See to it that they receive your gift. Then go ahead and
do it But understand why you're Not happy about their unwillingness to
receive your love and are in turmoil yourself. Understand why you're
experiencing that. It's not because they won't receive it, but because
you're not intelligent enough not to recognize the game and not take the
bait. There's a lot more peace to being an attractive nuisance that just
sits there being attractive. Because there is inspiration there because
there is something. That's recognizably of value, and you stay in your
piece like the the guru that sits at the top of the mountain and makes
everybody come thousands of miles and climb thousands of feet. To talk
to them.

