---
 title: Attractive nuisance
 audiofn: Attractive_nuisance
---

## {{page.title}}

If you are caring enough to share whatever degree of inspiration you have, and it is not heard, and you’re left with the feeling that what you’re doing isn’t working, beware of the temptation to become defensive. If you think you have arrived at a point where you’re not able to inspire further, then you simply haven’t discovered the depth of your capacity to be inspired, and you need more inspiration, and so you’re going to have to go to that point where the inspiration comes forth to you first. And then if it’s still not heard, if it’s still not received, you’ve got to ask yourself whether or not this lack of receipt justifies your abandoning the extension of love, and returning to the mode of self-defense in which your body constantly feeds back to you tension, lack of good function. It tells you that you’re out of balance.

There are people in your lives who play “Catch Me If You Can” with you. Here I am! And you walk toward them and they disappear. They say, “I want some love”, and you say, “OK, I’m willing to extend some love”, and then they run away. They act out the words “I don’t want your love”, and so it’s a constant taunt, a constant baiting. This is not a justification for you not to extend love, but you must resist the tendency or the temptation to engage in the chase. Did you hear that? That doesn’t mean that you abandon the willingness to be the place where inspiration and love can be extended. You don’t run after somebody to give it to them when their intent is to always be just out of reach. It would be better for you to be like an ice cream truck which is called an “attractive nuisance”. The point is to be something so desirable that the one who says, “catch me if you can” on his or her own wants to come where you are, to stand in receipt. It’s a great temptation when somebody wines and tells their sad tale about how rough it is and implies by sharing it with you that they’re doing something other than taking up your time just to hear the sadness of their story. And you respond. And they push you away or they leave. Don’t play into that. See it for what it is and don’t chase after them, but do not abandon your willingness to be the place where inspiration comes forth, and the extension of caring is present to be given.

The question is, does this behavior, does this person’s response constitute justification for me abandoning my peace, my joy, and the lift of the inspiration, and the truth that I’m experiencing, and a body that’s at peace, and isn’t reporting back to me tension, and lack of ease and dis ease. Does this behavior justify my giving up my being innocent, my being unconflicted, my being in harmony with existence. And if you decide that the hit of getting justice or succeeding in seeing to it that they receive your gift, then go ahead and do it but understand why you’re not happy about their unwillingness to receive your love, and are in turmoil yourself. Understand why you’re experiencing that. It’s not because they won’t receive it, but because you’re not intelligent enough not to recognize the game and not take the bait.

There’s a lot more peace to being an attractive nuisance that just sits there being attractive. Because there is inspiration there because, there is something, that’s recognizably of value, and you stay in your peace like the the guru that sits at the top of the mountain, and makes everybody come thousands of miles and climb thousands of feet to talk to them.
