---
 title: Back to the Altar
 audiofn: Back_to_the_Altar
---

## {{page.title}}

ty. Of the temple that the altar is in. And that in so doing one Causes
the altar to recede in one's mind until it becomes forgotten. But there
is another thing you all do with the temple. That isn't so beautiful.
And that is that. Because you have your back turned to the altar. And
because you are experiencing Separateness aloneness. Which isn't natural
to you to be feeling. The unnaturalness that you feel you identify as
fear. And Then Out of fear, you Transform the temple into a fortress. A
defense A defense against Whatever is out there. That is responsible for
your being afraid, you see. And if you find the fortress not protecting
you well. You strengthen it, you develop it, you find a bigger and
better way to be safe. And all the time your back is turned to the
altar. Now You must understand that The altar is the presence of God.
That is the very presence of you. And there is an effulgence to it, an
illumination to it, a glow, if you will. And the glow. Is what you might
call the temple that surrounds the illumination of the presence of God.
That is the Actual center and circumference of you. When you imagine
that you can step back. From the light That is you And observe it. You
find that um you can also imagine a capacity to turn your back on it.
And notice the glow without seeing the altar, without seeing the source
of the glow. And then you can become preoccupied with it because it is
the only thing in your view. And so you can beautify it or you can
strengthen it or you can Do whatever your imagination can come up with.
Except That because your back is turned on your essential being and you
cannot avoid but feel the unnaturalness of that stance. Everything you
do, whether it's beautifying. The temple Or creating a fortress out of
it. Will be done out of fear. And as a defense. Now Your body Is the
visibility and tangibility of your individuality. Your individuality. is
spirit Not matter. Not solid form. Therefore, the visibility and
tangibility of you has to also be Utter spirit. Not tangible matter. But
The moment you begin to use the temple. As a means of defense. You
densify it, you tighten it up. Indeed, um I know that almost all of you
At this particular time. With all of the Invitations you have through
the media. To feel fear are experiencing physical tension. are generally
not feeling at ease in your body. And the reason is because you are
Preparing it. To defend yourself. Now I'm going to ask you a trick
question. Which came first. The invitation to fear. Or the physical
sensation of fear. Well, What came first wasn't. The call for fear Or
The uneasy feeling within you. What came first was turning your back on
the altar. If this is clear to you, Then you will be able to understand
easily and clearly. That the answer To the call for fear and The
physical sensation of uneasiness. I To give your attention back to the
altar. So that you don't engage in defense beautifully or. By having a
strong fortress. Oh. Let's defend ourselves through reason and
compassion. Let's defend ourselves through Prayer Let's defend ourselves
through a positive attitude. Let's defend ourselves by consciously
embracing our enemy. With love You see, that's a That's a beautiful way
of defending yourself, but it's still defense. You've got to stop
keeping your back to the altar. You've got to abandon. Looking at
effects. And turn within. To the place where your piece is available to
you. And you must choose for your peace first before you look out there.
So that when you access your piece, You may feel The presence of God's
love that is there. Growing brighter and illuminating you with the gift
of love. So that all you are impelled to do. Or B I The uncomplicated
presence of love. That sees what God would have you see. Where you had
seen an enemy. that you needed to defend yourself against. And that is
the only thing that is going to transform. Whatever situation you're
confronted by that seems to be a justifiable call for fear. Now I want
you to understand also that as long as you engage in the habit of using
your body as a shield. As a fortress As a As a presence of that which
has the capacity to exert force. You will find yourself. Experiencing
your body. Trying to accommodate. Your intent to use it as a defense.
And you will be. Uncomfortable you will become ill. You will find this
eases. Simply because Your decision To act and be A forceful presence.
For your defense. Causes you To use The glow Of the altar As a means of
being unconscious of the altar. And Your ever present sanity with a
capital S. does not allow you. To become more powerful as an independent
agent for change. Without your experiencing an equal amount of distress.
Your sanity, the ever present balance of being. Causes every single one
of you. When you are attempting to act at odds with being. To be met
with an equal force in the opposite direction, you might say. In other
words, if you try to stretch. Into a position. Or a shape That God
didn't give you the ability to move into. Your attempt. will be met with
an awareness that you can't do it. And it will also be met with an
awareness of The unnaturalness of it. Because even though you try to act
and think insanely, you haven't been given the capacity to do it. And so
you say. I am going to protect myself against my enemy. And I am going
to use my body because it's the only thing I have to use. As The
fortress and the weapon. And I am going to do whatever I have to do. To
protect myself no matter how aggressive my enemy gets. And the more
intense you become, The more at odds with the nature of the temple. Of
the glow of the altar you become. And You squeeze the life, you squeeze
the glow, you squeeze the light out of it. Not that you can actually do
that, but you squeeze it out of your range of vision. So when you attack
your enemy, You're attacking yourself. Because the whole scenario has
arisen out of a fantastic imagination. That you could actually turn your
back on the light of your being. The altar that is in the very center of
you. And engage in anything beautiful or ugly. Loving or hateful.
Healing or killing. Without being connected with your source. You're
getting constant invitations to feel vulnerable these days. And it's
very easy for whatever vulnerability you activate within yourself to rub
off. Or color your experience of everyone else and anyone and everyone.
can become the object of your Suspicion And very creative imaginative
ideas about just how they are being. Terrible. And operating. To your
detriment. So this is really a time to remember what your function is.
Which is to be the presence of love. And to remember that The atonement
principle. Because atonement is what this is all about. The atonement
principle is love, and the atonement is an act of love. And as long as
your attention is on the temple. I'll put it this way, as long as your
attention is on the glow from the altar. And whether you make it into a
temple or a fortress. You're ultimately Going to have to realize. That
the answer To any form of defense. is to turn around. So that your back
isn't to the altar. So that you can see the altar. And in your imagined
distance from it. Feel Yourself being loved. By the love that is really
you. That is really God being the presence that is you. So that Your
decision to stand apart from it and observe it might. Knelt in the
presence of that love. And uh You will find yourself. Slipping back into
being it rather than standing apart from it. And observing it And
apparently giving yourself a vantage point. Where you can turn your back
on it. And look out there. And see a world that you must be defended
against. Even the glow. From the altar. That you look at Which is really
the temple. But what you look at With your back turned to the altar. Can
become that which you have to defend yourself against. And so Here you
are. Using your body as a defense against it. Further compounding. The
densifying of pure light. Pure glow. The pure energy of spirit. That
never was matter. And never was governed by The laws of matter. The laws
of physics.

