---
 title: Bearing witness privately
 audiofn: Bearing_witness_privately
---

## {{page.title}}

There's another aspect of bearing witness. And that's something you do
utterly privately. That's when you're at home. And you start thinking
about so and so. Well, if you're not thinking appreciation about them,
if you are grousing about how they treated you today, if you are
contemplating how difficult they always are, you're bearing witness. And
how you choose to bear witness in the privacy of your own mind makes a
difference. If you want to bear false witness by rehearsing in your mind
all of the negatives about so and so. You become Completely blocked as
an agent for change in that person's life. And you're occupying your
mind in a way that is unprofitable for you. And causes you for that
period of time to be in a miserable state of mind. Totally unproductive.
a totally insane use of your mind. But If you are thinking of so and so
who has been unpleasant or is seems to be ill or whatever. And you are
utilizing that time in your consciousness. To remember their divinity.
To remember what is true about them. And to contemplate that if there's
anything at all there where your friend appears to be, that it has to be
God present. And that none of the behavior or none of the physical
circumstances. That are less than the best represent what God is being
there. And therefore they can't represent God. And therefore they can't
be real. In any divine sense. Then you are using your mind in a way.
That causes it to be in harmony with the truth about them, causes your
mind to be in harmony with the truth about them that God is expressing.
And it becomes possible for you to easily slip from your clear thinking
about them to a direct experience of what God is seeing and being them
as. And when that happens, You become a healer. Your presence and your
attitude and you're witnessing for the truth for them. Puts you in a
position of experiencing realization of the truth of them, not thoughts
about the truth of them, and because minds are joined. And one with God
is a majority. Healing can happen. Healing is the result of true
witnessing for your brother. And that happens in the absolute apparent
privacy of your own mind. You see So you can bear false witness,
accomplish absolutely nothing. And be in a miserable state of mind
yourself, or you can bear true witness of your brother, and because your
true witness in your thoughts is so close to the truth. Truth itself can
penetrate. And give you the realization. Of the truth about them that
heals. So This is a place where persistence is required. Within yourself
persist in Choosing to be conscious of the truth about your brother
rather than idly letting your mind run. Over old tapes. Of all the lies
about them, all the things that God isn't being right there where they
are. All of the things that even they seem to be insisting on
expressing. You must be persistent on behalf of your brother now. When
you stop to think about it. If you're utilizing your mind. To witness to
the truth on behalf of your fellow man. You're not going to be in a
miserable state of mind yourself. And if the result of doing that is you
experience a realization, you might say direct from God, well, that's
not a miserable thing either. So So do it and do it with commitment and
And do it knowing that it's blessing. Not only you, but your brother or
sister. OK.

