---
 title: Bearing witness publicly
 audiofn: Bearing_witness_publicly
---

## {{page.title}}

There are two kinds of bearing witness. We've talked about what you
might call Bearing witness privately, meaning one on one where you
stand. witnessing for the truth for someone else. And bearing witness
privately. It is as important as I made it sound, but there's a form of
bearing witness that is in many ways even more important. And that is
bearing witness, bearing true witness of your friend or neighbor. To
another And you could call this bearing witness publicly. Sometimes it
is absolutely essential to stand with someone bearing witness to the
truth of them, to others. In some ways this is even more difficult.
Because Usually the place where that is called for is when others are
challenging your friend. And so you have to put your mouth where your
values are and speak up. You know, also it says in the Bible, no man
cometh unto the Father but by me. And you may not have realized it, but
one of the aspects of the meaning of that statement is you must come by
someone who is going to stand up for you. Not that the father requires
that. It is essential to have one stand up for you because you can't
stand up for yourself all alone. You see, the dream, the, uh, the
dilemma you're all in, the human condition you're all in is a result of
your having stood up for yourself all by yourself. Independence. The
reason you can't come to the Father except by me is because essential to
your coming home is that you've got to be willing to abandon standing up
for yourself all by yourself. You know the saying, pride goeth before a
fall. Or you could say pride went before the fall. Self satisfaction.
I'd rather do it my way. I want to be a fully self-realized person on my
own. And that was what precipitated the fall. You didn't really do it
that way. You said in so many words, I want to play with, I want to toy
with the experience of independence. And you're now so deeply in the
habit of independence and self-authorized actions and self-realized
personality all on your own. That it's humiliating. To need to have
someone else vouch for you. Speak on your behalf. And have that be the
only way you can come home. You can't come home under your own steam.
You can't come home alone. Someone must stand with you, speak for you.
You might say this is not utterly absolutely correct. But the father
must see that you have no element within you of private self-authorized
self-assertion. That you are willing to be part of the family instead of
a proud independent outcast. So this subject of witnessing for your
brother. is extremely important. And you know what, you really won't
fully understand the dynamic of having me witness for you as you come
home. Until you dare to involve yourself enough with your brothers to
stand for them on their behalf and witness for them and their integrity
and their value and their divinity and their worth. In front of another.
That's where the test comes in a way, because Although it can be
difficult witnessing privately for another one on one, continuing to be
there on their behalf with encouragement and inspiration. It isn't
really like you have to lay yourself on the line. But when you witness
for another, In front of someone else. Now you're putting yourself on
the line with others. And that's exactly what I do with you as you come
home. You might say That what was called the crucifixion was my putting
my life on the line for you. As an illustration. Makes you Stop and
ponder, doesn't it? What if you can't get home without someone else
witnessing for you? What if you can't get home all by yourself? Think
about it, contemplate it rather than think about it. Let it sink in. Let
it be real for you. And then remember what I said as I have loved you
love one another. Make the extension of witnessing for another in front
of someone else. For the purpose of declaring your Commitment to what is
true about your brother. And putting yourself on the line along with
your brother. This is love. And not just talk, you see, this is putting
it into practice. This is caring. Talk is cheap. Oh, I love you. Well,
do you love him enough to stand there with him on the line with him on
his or her behalf?

