---
 title: BEing
 audiofn: BEing
---

## {{page.title}}

Surfers don't ride the wave to get somewhere. They ride the wave for the
fun of finding the balance point over and over and over and over and
over and over and over again. Being is not about getting somewhere. It's
not about a destination. Being, and I'm capitalizing the word being. is
I It's infinite movement. That is forever making itself new. Because
it's the movement of God. And it's without a goal. And because it's
without a goal, It is incapable of being anything other than an
experience of pure joy. When you wake up and arrive at home with a
capital H. You're going to find yourself ising. You'll find it wasn't a
destination at all, but that it was, for lack of better words, arriving
at a point where you allow yourself to fully be in the movement of being
forever. And because there isn't a goal that you are superimposing upon
ising Distracting you from being fully present in the now, then the
experience of being. is an experience of now wholeness. That is You
might say like an infinite ball of snakes, slithering and moving,
constantly active, except That instead of it being thousands of
individual snakes doing their own thing, It's all God being one thing
infinitely, and it's all then your conscious experience of being. It's
unlimited activity. That occurs in utter peace. And without the
expenditure of energy, and therefore you cannot become exhausted from
it. And Instead of imagining it as an infinite ball of snakes, you could
imagine it as an infinite presence of voices singing. That would convey
something more of beauty and joy. And you will catch the wave of the
tone here and there. And being will be pure joy. You'll never come to an
end or a point of rest, a destination. And you won't hide from any part
of your infinity. Or your experience of infinity. You will Willingly
Witness to and for every aspect of the movement of being. To the
movement of being. And for lack of better words, you, you will be busy.
Rocking in a chair on a porch. Or on the edge of a cloud, playing a
harp.

