---
 title: Belief, believer or Christ
 audiofn: Belief_believer_or_Christ
---

## {{page.title}}

When you are facing away from the altar. You experience. But I'm going
to call the 4th dimensional conscious experience of being. As though it
is a three dimensional only. Universe Cause Arises from the 4th
dimensional conscious experience of being. And is infinitely manifest.
But if you deprive yourself of the father's perspective, which is 4th
dimensional. In other words, whole. All inclusive You experience the
infinitude of creation. As though it's external to you. And As though
it's self-existent. And When your back is to the altar. Everything you
see is seen through the lens of fear. And so this 3 dimensional
universe. That you see Appears to be fearsome. And You Become locked
into. A defensive stance toward it. You are suffering from ignorance of
what it is. And in the ignorance of what it is, you give a definition
yourself. But all your definitions amount to our beliefs. And the minute
you create a belief, you also create, quote, the believer, unquote.
There is no believer. There's only the Son of God, the daughter of God.
But the moment you create a belief, You necessarily create a believer,
and then you begin to think that's who you are. The believer of what
you're believing. Now I'm bringing this up for a very important reason,
and that is That When correction occurs, which means healing. It is
absolutely essential. For the belief to be separated from The Christ
that seems to be suffering from the belief. Understand that the way
correction occurs is when you distinguish between the Christ. And
whatever belief that Christ happens to have succumbed to. That is
causing his perspective. To be fearful and defensive. And who finds
force. To be the only way to survive. What they're suffering from is a
belief. The belief is nothing more than magic. And the effects of that
magic are nothing more than illusion. They are not real, and they have
nothing whatsoever to do with that individuality who is the Christ. Now
this you can do intellectually, consciously and intellectually. Having
done it, you can then, without bias go within. To ask God What needs to
be known here? What is the healing element here that will. Transform the
appearance. of a Christ. Suffering from ignorance. How can I approach
this Christ? With peace And with love That will illuminate the Christ of
that one, reminding him or her of the truth about himself or herself.
And it won't be quite so difficult as it is if you say, He's an evil
bastard. God help me forgive him for his awfulness. You see, you're the
one projecting the awfulness onto him. You're adding that. That's a job
to overcome. To have God help you overcome. The awfulness of his
evilness. Which is a definition you've provided. It's much easier To
recognize that the belief and the believer are both illusions and that
right where a believer, believing a belief that he's suffering from,
seems to be. is the unalterable. Unchangeable, eternal Christ. If you
recognize that even just intellectually, you will find that you have the
means. To approach and address this one in your mind with genuine love
and genuine caring. And in extending that to him or her. You know what
you do. You claim that as being the truth about you. And you will not be
so ready to succumb to your beliefs. Without separating them from
yourself and recognizing That no matter what beliefs you are believing,
You are neither the believer or the belief. You are the Christ, the
direct and present expression of God. That can not in any way be altered
in the slightest from what God is being right where you are. It is this
separation. That allows for healing. You see, It's very easy to look at
others and say, well, he's created it for himself. You're saying that
all that's there is a believer. Believing a belief. You see, No
possibility of healing there. And if you approach that one as though he
is a believer, having a belief that he needs to get rid of, so he
believes something new that's more spiritual, you're still dealing with
a believer. You've never cut through to the spiritual fact of him that
he's the Christ, absolutely incapable of ever having become a believer
with a belief that he's suffering from. Now, I don't mean for this to
sound intellectually complicated. But if you get this, It will be much
easier for you. To be miracle ready And it's closer to being miracle
minded. And it lays the way for a sudden shift of perception to occur
much more easily, you see? If you want to experience a time collapse,
Where there's instantaneous healing. You're going to have to approach
the one needing healing, whether it's yourself or another. With some way
to cut through. The confusion that keeps the bondage in place. And when
you realize That what will cut through it is the recognition that the
belief that this other one is suffering from. is being entertained by a
nonexistent presence called a believer. Who is actually the Christ,
temporarily unconscious of his Christhood. Then you will forget about
the belief. You will forget about whether that one has created it for
himself and deserves the consequences he or she is experiencing. And you
will address your attention to the Christ that is there. And what
happens? You negate the belief, the believer. And the suffering, the
consequences, and there's a time collapse and you have what is called an
instantaneous healing or which you call. A sudden shift of perception.
What cuts through it is the capacity to recognize another's innocence.
Primitive innocence, primordial innocence, innocence from the beginning
that could never be altered. You separate the belief and the believer.
From the individuality. You acknowledge who and what the individuality
can only be. And you love that. And you let God fill you with the means.
To convey, to embody, to express the love. That God instills in you, not
that you figure out with your best judgment, will probably be the thing
that will help. You embody what You're filled with to share. So that a
sudden shift of perception can occur. And Healing An experience of time
collapsed. Can occur So that it doesn't take years to change or years to
refine your soul to a, to a better pure place.

