---
 title: Beware of teachers
 audiofn: Beware_of_teachers
---

## {{page.title}}

Beware of teachers. Who teach With authority. Beware of teachers. Whose
intent is to Force change in you. Beware of teachers. Who's teaching.
Process Invades You And Coerces you. Because those teachers Think their
egos. And what their teaching can only confirm. The ego infrastructures,
the experience of existence that one has with his or her back to the
altar. And then Beware of being one of those kinds of teachers. If you
don't know what the truth is from God, Keep your mouth shut. And don't
teach anyone anything. There would be amazing growth if every one of you
did that because immediately there would be silence. And there would be
silence for such a long time. That it would become intolerable to you
because it is impossible for you not to be expressive, but if you're
going to be true to the willingness. Not to teach something God hasn't
disclosed to you. You will Find yourself. Like someone who's Not
breathing, needing a breath. And you will come to the point where you
will say, God, I really do want to hear you. I really do want to know
the truth because I can't hold my breath any longer. I can't be silent
any longer. And you will become defenseless. And the penetration will
occur and the inspiration will occur and you will have something to talk
about and express. But you know what? It won't be to try to convince
anybody. You know what? It might come out as a laugh that lasts 3 weeks.
A laugh of such joy. That you would never want to stop laughing. And
after 3 weeks, Those around you will have begun to laugh, and they will
have laughed, and it will extend on out. Because you will have been
teaching. And you might not even have noticed that you were teaching
because you were just being. The presence of God.

