---
 title: Biasing the Kingdom
 audiofn: Biasing_the_Kingdom
---

## {{page.title}}

The only thing that's in your face, the only thing available for you to
experience is reality with a capital R. What is called the kingdom of
heaven. If you're not seeing it, it's because you're biasing your
perception of it. It's not because you're somewhere else. You're not in
a material world someplace else, a different creation from reality or
the kingdom of heaven. At this instant you are experiencing the kingdom
of heaven. And if the glory of it is escaping you, it's because of a
bias you've brought to the way you're perceiving the kingdom of heaven.
It's not because you're seeing something else. Curiosity helps you
release the biases that you have brought, the distortions in your
perception of the only thing there is to see. So Let there be more
curiosity every day, all day long. Remember that there is Splendor Glory
Wonder Confronting you at every moment, just remember that so that you
remain curious about it. And don't forget about it because you have
become preoccupied with the definition, the awful definitions that
you've given to the kingdom of heaven. And that you spend your time
reacting to. And suffering from That's the simplicity of it. And so I am
encouraging you to renew your curiosity. Don't forget to be conscious.
Don't become unconscious by slipping into habits of perception. And well
established ways of seeing everything.

