---
 title: Body meditation
 audiofn: Body_meditation
---

## {{page.title}}

I want you to close your eyes and Breathe deeply, just to relax. And as
you're sitting there, I want you to be aware of the floor holding your
feet up and the chair holding your seat up. And just be present with
your body. And then I want you to start at your toes. And whether you
have pretty toenails or not. Or pretty toes or not. I want you to
appreciate them. Thank you. For having the intent. To identify the
presence of God and therefore the presence of me perfectly. Whether I'm
seeing it or not. Thank you. For having The intent And purpose. To
identify. The presence of God perfectly. And then Continue from there.
On up to the top of your head. I want you as you do it to Be aware of
Your legs of your Abdominal area of Every part of your body. And thank
it. For its divine purpose It's divine intent. To identify you
perfectly. And then When you get to the top of your head. I then want
you to Say to yourself. Or to your body. I And trust myself. To you I
yield to your innate. divine wisdom. That the Father has placed in you.
That the Father is placing in you. At this moment. And I give up control
over it. And I will be quiet now as you continue the rest of the way to
your head. All right. Say to yourself, Or to your body. I entrust
myself. To you I yield to your innate. divine wisdom. That the Father is
placing in you. At this moment. And I give up control over it. All
right.

