---
 title: Body density
 audiofn: Body_density
---

## {{page.title}}

The moment you become afraid and defended against your body, afraid of
and defended against your body. Your body begins to cooperate with your
decision about it, and it begins to tense up, to densify even more. And
to begin to provide further complaints that Increase your fear. Increase
your defense. And thus, Increase even more the density with which you
hold your body, you see. Your body has no capacity to act on its own
whatsoever because it's just the visibility and tangibility of your
individuality. It's the visibility and tangibility of you. Through your
fear and your commitment to your fear, you densify it further and
further and further. Do not assume that this statement means that the
body on its own in itself is dense. There is no body on its own that of
itself can be anything. All it is is visibility and tangibility. The
glow. Caused by the altar. The mind, however, can bring its illumination
to the body. Why? Because That's The source of the illumination. Of the
visibility and tangibility of your individuality. It isn't that your
mind or the mind can or cannot, will or might not bring its illumination
to the body. That is just the way it is. Your individuality. is what is
rendered visible and tangible. As the body Which ultimately you will
discover is a body of light. A glow, as I've been saying. The image I
have been using. has not been to look beyond the globe. But rather to
turn around so your back isn't toward the altar where the light is, the
light of your essential being, which is the presence of God.

