---
 title: Bottom of the barrel
 audiofn: Bottom_of_the_barrel
---

## {{page.title}}

Uh yes. And here we are back in the barrel. And It works from the bottom
up. The starting place is the bottom, as we discussed a couple of weeks
ago. When you hit the bottom of the barrel. That is where you have the
best chance of a breakthrough because that is where you feel the least
competent. But I'll tell you something else. When you get to the bottom
of the barrel. If you yield. The bottom will fall out. And you will find
yourself not in the barrel. And there will be no need to work yourself
up from the bottom to the top of the barrel. And this is important to
understand. It says you cannot behave effectively while you function on
different levels. However, while you do, correction must be introduced
vertically from the bottom up. This was said So that you might
understand that the starting point is at the bottom. That is its main
purpose, this, this. Image Of bottom and top from the bottom up. This is
because you think you live in space where concepts such as up and down
are meaningful. The problem is being in the barrel in the first place
and whether you're at the top or the bottom is important to you while
you value your definitions of reality more than the true meaning of
reality. And the answer lies in escape, if you will, from the barrel.
And if you get to the bottom of the barrel, Where you have no more
energy available to you to try to succeed as an independent entity. And
you truly give up, you will fall through the bottom of the barrel and be
out of it. And what I'm stating demonstrates the next sentence.
Ultimately, space is as meaningless as time. Both are merely beliefs.
The minute you take one small part of the kingdom of heaven. And define
it as something other than the kingdom of heaven. That thing becomes a
learning tool. Because that thing stands there representing. A
requirement upon you. To revisit its real meaning. So that you might not
be confused. And conflicted within yourself. Whatever you take of God
and give another definition to becomes a learning tool for you. Because
it is something which you have to bring your attention to. With a
conscious desire to see it for what it is in order to return to your
sanity. It's always the things that you have denied the reality of by
giving your own unreal definition to. That becomes The place Where
correction is required. Thus it becomes a learning tool. And once
correction has occurred, it ceases to have that function as a learning
tool. Because it is no longer a place where you're making an error. Of
judgment You see, The real purpose of this world. And this world right
now, as far as you're all concerned, is exactly what you're defining it
as. Even though it's actually the kingdom of heaven. The real purpose of
this world is to use it. To correct your unbelief. I don't believe it's
God. I believe it's a physical world that started from a big bang. Well,
that's your belief. That's, that's your belief, your. Your belief causes
you not to be able to believe what it truly is. And thus your belief is
an unbelief. So as long as you're looking at the kingdom of heaven and
calling it the world, it becomes a learning tool because it sits there
calling for correction. The kingdom of heaven sits there calling for
correction of your mind. And once you let your mind be changed by
abandoning your interpretation or your definition, And you let the
kingdom of heaven register with you, which is what it is. Then It's no
longer a learning tool. It doesn't serve that purpose anymore. But it
doesn't disappear. You see it for what it is, the kingdom of heaven. And
you rejoice. And you're not preoccupied with it anymore. Because you
aren't in a state of conflict. And you're not in need of protection or
defense. So you don't have to watch it to see what it's going to do to
you next. And in the freedom from not having to be on guard. You might
say, you, you can get on with enjoying reality, enjoying communion with
all of the brotherhood simultaneously. Free from the terror that awaits
you around the corner and so on, you see.

