---
 title: Call for judgment
 audiofn: Call_for_judgment
---

## {{page.title}}

The call For judgment Has increased. Because everyone is closer to
waking up. And therefore It's not only easier. To make the distinctions.
It's more necessary to make the distinctions. What we're talking about
here. is making a distinction. Between each one's faulty definitions of
what is of value and what is not and his true. Definitions of value and
what is not. We're talking about something within each individual. The
judgment we're talking about. is what occurs when You ask yourself
whether that thought that you are entertaining. is of value or not?
Whether it is a worthy thought or not, whether it represents the truth
or not, whether it embodies what God is being or not. So that You may
Choose Not To embody that thought. So that you choose not to embrace it.
So that you say no to the thought and are open to Discover what is true.
From the father. Now if someone is behaving badly, if someone is
behaving poorly, You say no to the poor behavior. Because you know,
since he is The direct expression of God that He is capable. of behaving
better. And it's your intent to inspire better behavior. Because you
know he's capable of it. Your action toward him arises out of truly an
ultimate and ultimately true awareness. of him So that your behavior
Doesn't condemn him but uplifts him. By encouragement and inspiration
that comes out of the love you feel because you are apprehending him
truly. You see? And you have to remember that your reason for being in
relationships is healing. Not punishment. You see? So that the means you
use embody. The vision, the goal that you would Achieve

