---
 title: Change your mind
 audiofn: Change_your_mind
---

## {{page.title}}

Caring, involvement. Witnessing for your brother. Witnessing to the
truth in your brother. All of these things. Are essential aspects. Of
awakening They are also essential aspects for turning the tide of events
in your world today. And so in one way or another, you're going to
continue hearing me talking about this and embellishing this, and, and
promoting. You're actually changing your behavior. Actually changing.
The way you use your mind. The principle is That As you extend to your
brother, the gift of your willingness to see your brother the way God
sees your brother. You forgive him. You forgive him all of the Unloving
thoughts. All of the critical attitudes you have held relative to your
brother. And you lose your brother. From the bondage of your negative
viewpoint. And as you do that, you are infilled from the Father. With
the love that heals the relationship, and you are forgiven, you might
say. If you want to experience wholeness. You will receive the
experience of it as you offer it to your brother, not before you offer
it to your brother. You see, This is why I talk about involvement. This
is why I've been talking about caring. Consideration, thoughtfulness of
your brother. Um. Not being so busy with your own business that you
don't have time to notice what your brother's need is. That you don't
have time to be present with your brother. And then be willing to be
present with your brother. With a conscious intent to witness for the
very best in him. So if you don't want to have enemies, You've got To
realize That you've got to extend to your enemy. The perspective God can
provide to you. That clears your mind. Of everything unloving. And
everything uncaring. That you have been extending to that brother or
sister. You've got to bring a new element into the picture. That has as
its fundamental basis care. The reason an enemy behaves like an enemy is
because they haven't been confronted by someone who cares. And in the
absence of true caring, they have had to or they believe that they have
had to adopt an attitude of defense. Which everyone else experiences as
a form of attack. And to whatever degree you're unwilling to extend to
your brother care. You are in a state of self-defense, of
self-protection. And you need to be loved. Well, what better love could
you bless yourself with? Then God's love for you. By daring to care and
extend it to your enemy. Knowing that in the extension of it, you will
receive it as well. Now, this is not complicated. This doesn't take a
master's degree. It doesn't take hours and hours of study. It takes a
moment of willingness. And it takes a willingness to value what will
actually change your experience of the world. And contribute to the
greater ease of everyone else's being able to have a transformed
experience of the world. So that ultimately, They can see that it is and
always was the kingdom of heaven. Seen through a glass darkly seen
through the lens of self-protection, self defense which Although to the
one practicing it, it feels like a shield of armor. To everyone else, it
feels like attack. What feels to you like a shield of armor looks to
everyone else to be you. Dressed up as a porcupine. With quills to stay
clear of, you see. So you see, it doesn't require becoming spiritually
lofty. It doesn't require complex metaphysical principles, which if you
can get them all successfully lined up all at the same time. You will be
transformed. It takes a really simple down to earth willingness. To stop
practicing defense and start practicing love by Being willing to
actually be aware of your brother or sister. To be able to be present
with them. Whether they're miserable or happy. And to anticipate their
needs. And to be there, Johnny on the spot in the places where you can
respond to those needs. Because somehow it has become important to you
to embody love. To embody caring. Embodying meaning to Let it take form
in acts of kindness. Acts of thoughtfulness, words of support. Hugs You
live in a world that seems to be under threat. And the state of threat
seems to call you to be well prepared, well defended. The exact opposite
of what is called for, the exact opposite of what will cause a shift
that will remove the threat. The threat comes and your quills get
longer. But what will reduce the threat is the absence of quills on you.
That allows the one threatening to see and feel. That he doesn't need to
be defended with you and he can withdraw his threat. It isn't just a
matter of you're not having quills, it's a matter of being defenseless
and caring about that brother who is being threatening. The call is not
for the ability to meet the threat with better defense. The only thing
that will Dissolve the threat. Is the conscious real practice and
extension of caring. And in the most practical terms, that means.
Observing how you're using your mind. And practicing some
self-discipline. So that you don't just let it run off in an old habit
of judgment. And condemnation. And righteousness that seems to support
the condemnation that you've come to. You have to change the use you are
putting your mind to. And if the call is for you to care about something
or someone that you can't conceive of being able to care about, then It
doesn't mean they're that bad. It means you have come up against a place
where you can't conceive of how to love them. You've come up against a
limit in you, and that's when you have to care about them enough to sit
down and go within and ask, Father. What is the truth here? That will
unblock my unwillingness to care about this one. You've got to change
your behavior. And you know what? God and the universe stand ready to
fully support the clarification in you in your mind. That will answer
your need to be able to be unblocked with this individual or that
circumstance. Where you say I can't give love, I can't care. And If no
one is willing to do that. The sense of threat is going to increase.
Why? Because to the degree that you are unwilling to do that, you are
resisting not only God but you are resisting the experience of your true
identity, and so you're in a state of self-denial. And when you're in a
state of self-denial, it's an attack on yourself. which can only be
experienced as suffering. And so the more defended you become, the more
threatened you will feel, and you will say, it's everyone else out there
in the world. Watch how the world is getting so aggressive. We must be
coming upon something very horrible. And you completely missed the
point. That it wouldn't be happening if you were not overlooking the
fact that you are experiencing congestion in your heart of hearts. And
that all you have to do. I get in touch with your heart again. Get in
touch with your love. Get in touch with the fact that you don't like to
be hurting yourself. That you don't like the result of allowing the flow
of your love. To be blocked. And then realizing that the only thing that
will unblock your love is to have an object of your affection. And
extend your affection to someone. Don't extend your love to God. The
direction of the flow of communication. That ends up being communion is
from God to you to your brother. And your sister And in that connection.
All three are brought into an experience of oneness. Where there is
harmony and beauty and bliss. If I sound like I'm being stern, please
understand that I'm not being stern. I'm not chastising you, but I'm, I
am speaking about something. That is extremely meaningful for all of you
and for the entire brotherhood of man. All the sons and daughters of
God. Because those who are awake are at the moment unable to enjoy your
direct company and you are unable to enjoy theirs. So it's, it's not a
loss, you might say, just between you and those who are incarnated with
you at the moment. The blessing brings unity to the whole of the
brotherhood. But you've got to start with the brothers you can see, the
ones you can touch, the ones you can hug, the ones whose eyes you can
look in. And as a result of looking in them, remember God. It's got to
start with each other. It's simple. The problems being experienced in
the world wouldn't be being experienced if everyone was caring.
Genuinely caring. And not trying to leverage each other out of or into
anything. And you don't have to take on the whole world, just, just take
on the ones that are next to you. It's a joy producing act. Love is. And
the more joy you feel as a result of expressing love. The easier it is
to let in, more love. And the more courage you will have to dare to
love. Those that are even more unlovable than you have dared to embrace
yet, it's in this way that each one of you is the savior of the world.
Your presence is meaningful. Your real presence is needed, not only by
everyone else but by you as well, cause, cause you're feeling so
miserable when You're the son or daughter of God. Who under no
circumstances deserves to feel Or actually can really feel miserable.
You can create a real sense of misery, but the only way for there to be
real misery is if God created it as one of the experiences available for
his self-expression to have, and that's impossible. So. Please rejoice
with me in the awareness of what it takes and how simple it is. And then
love your brother enough to hang in there with your brother or sister as
he or she tests the waters before letting go of their distrust of you.
And you have to be willing to hang in there as they let go of their
distrust. And as you by your persistent extension of love, demonstrate
the fact that there really are no quills hidden. You've got to care
about them enough to hang in while your new behavior. And your new
attitude. Demonstrates to them that you really have changed and
therefore they can dare to.

