---
 title: Changing the system
 audiofn: Changing_the_system
---

## {{page.title}}

The system Implies A code and manner of conduct. But you know what, you
don't have to pay any attention to it. What I mean by that is You must
certainly meet. The requirements that the laws require you to fulfill.
But you don't have to think. The way the system thinks. You don't have
to define what you're doing according to the definitions the system has
established. There's a saying Think to be heard of God. And speak to be
heard of men. You've got to dare to be the fool. By letting nothing
stand in the way of Your expression of your love. And you've got to let
the chips fall where they may. Because it cost you too much to squelch
your love. If you squelch your love and its expression, you abandon your
integrity. And you stop glorifying God, or at least you try to, and when
you try to block God, it's uncomfortable. You've got to make the gift
because that's your function. And There need to be more examples in the
world of people who are fulfilling their function and apparently doing
it in the realm of business. There are more people who are needed as
examples. Of how to be In the business world but not of it. So that
others are inspired to have the guts to do likewise because that's the
way change will occur. Always as change begins to occur, there's great
resistance to it. And so the first ones to do it are like pioneers. And
the ones that come later, it's a breeze. You can't afford to grouse
about the fact that it's hard work. You are not only having to push
against. The status quo, the established system. You're having to push
against. Whatever amount of conditioning that the system has provided
that you have taken on for yourself. So you're challenging some
Conditionings within yourself. Great. But don't abandon the vision.
Don't abandon the vision. Don't abandon your heart. You give it all the
meaning it has. The first lesson in the course of miracles says nothing
I see means anything. What it really means is nothing has the meaning
I'm giving it. So you can give new meaning that is a closer
approximation of truth. And you can operate according to those meanings.
And as all of us do that. The status quo shifts the system. Changes

