---
 title: Charity
 audiofn: Charity
---

## {{page.title}}

Healing rests on charity. And charity is a way of perceiving the
perfection of another. Even if you cannot perceive it in yourself. You
might have thought I would say. That it was a way of perceiving the
perfection of another, even if that other cannot perceive it in himself.
But at the bottom line, it means that you've got to give something to
another. That you haven't been willing to give to yourself. Because you
won't receive it for yourself until it's given. Away Sounds harsh maybe.
But of course that's That's the way it would look coming from the ego
frame of reference. To give something to another that You haven't given
to yourself is utterly simple if you don't make a mountain out of a
molehill. If you don't make a big deal out of it. It's easy to be
thoughtful. It really is. But of course in order to be thoughtful you'll
have to get past the judgments you've been holding about that other one
that say to you. It's not principled for me to do this. He doesn't
deserve it. She doesn't deserve it until he or she changes. And what are
you doing? You're not holding them to themselves. You're holding them to
your definition of them. Charity is a way of perceiving the perfection
of another, even if he cannot perceive it in himself. It is a gift.
Charity is something that you cannot give. If you haven't asked the
Father or the Holy Spirit or your guide, one who is awake. To share with
you his Vision His true vision And when that vision is provided to you.
As I've said before, It is So moving. That you spontaneously extend it
to your brother. And what you are extending is bigger. than anything you
could have extended. Through a process of thought and reasoning. No
matter how lofty those thoughts and reasonings were. Because it's a gift
from God. And when you extend it to your brother. You are embraced with
it as well. If you feel it. But don't extend it. You have not provided
the opportunity for correction to occur and therefore correction will
not happen in you, even though the feeling of love might be a quite
blissful experience for you. Charity is a weaker reflection. Because
Your willingness to extend it is a willingness to extend something you
don't yet grasp the significance of. The hugeness of And so your
extension of it. is done on faith Rather than from conviction. You see,
And it's in that sense that it's a weaker reflection than your lofty
reasonings and ideas might be which, which you have great confidence in.
Even though there's no way for you to experience them as huge. And all
inclusive because they're not, they're intellectual. If you don't have
available to you. Anything greater. Then your current Perception of
things, your current mindsets. Change cannot occur. Correction cannot
occur. Healing cannot occur. Redemption cannot occur. Charity is a way
of looking at another. As a result of going beyond your best assessment
of your brother. And the simple fact is that in your willingness to let
yourself be infilled. With the experience of a brother that goes beyond
your best assessment of him. You Receive. By virtue of the influx.
Justification. For looking at yourself beyond those very same limits
because I promise you, you don't extend to your brother any better
judgments than you extend to yourself. Charity

