---
 title: Choice and circumstance
 audiofn: Choice_and_circumstance
---

## {{page.title}}

At the bottom line. What you are doing. That is not consistent with what
you want. is being done because you've chosen to do it. That simple fact
needs to be very clear. You haven't done it because of circumstances,
even though you might project your decision and your action out there in
order not to have to take responsibility for it. But the fact is that
you have said you have defined the situation. In such a way That you say
to yourself, I have no choice but to do what I don't want to do. And so
I am going to do what I don't want to do. And many times what you choose
to do. is not principled. And so you're going against your very own
principles. And you feel coerced. Naturally you feel coerced by the
circumstances. To act inconsistently with your own integrity. And then
once you blame your circumstances, that is where you let your Fear
erupt. And be expressed. But You must not forget. That the reason you
are behaving the way you're behaving. It is because you have defined the
situation such that You say I have no other choice. My circumstances
require me to be unprincipled. My circumstances require me to break the
law. My circumstances require me. To Behave, let us say, in an ugly way.
Because I am so frustrated by my circumstances when the fact is that
you're frustrated because you have Define the situation. And believed
your definition and said you have no other choice than to behave in a
way that is upsetting to you. If you remember that it's your definition
and your choice and that there are other definitions of what's going on
available to you, then you will be empowered to make a change and not be
required to blame circumstances. The only thing that will obliterate the
fear is to stop looking at everything all by yourself and giving it all
the definitions you're giving it. Again, the only thing that will
correct the fear is turning back to the altar.

