---
 title: Co creation
 audiofn: Co_creation
---

## {{page.title}}

Giving up willfulness. Giving up your passion, so to speak. It is not a
matter of giving up your part in co-creation. It amounts to Moving into
100% involvement with creation. Co-creation is a word you must be
careful of. Because it takes two to co-create. And who is going to
co-create with God? What is there separate from God to co-create with
God? Only that which Still has some vestige of An independent Ability to
act on its own. So, Co-creation is what happens when you yield to God.
And Become A participant, you might say, still a sense of twoness there,
a participant in the movement of creation that God is being by not
standing in opposition to it in any way. Not being a separate influence
or a counterpart. But becoming 100% involved in that movement. Without
claiming any right to a second opinion or a different point of view or a
different way of interpreting what this movement of creation is. I will
tell you something. When you talk about following your passion, passion.
Relative to accomplishing things. is always an ego dynamic. And passion
is always used for the purpose of further establishing independence.
Further establishing security in that independence. Further establishing
Defense. In that independence. Security in that independence. You know
what? When you yield up your Apparent capacity to act independently with
passion. And you yield to the Father. You End up Being the full
expression. Of the father's purpose. That is unfolding itself right
where you are. And because you are in no way inhibiting The movement of
God right there where you are. Everything you do becomes quote on
purpose, unquote. It identifies fulfillment. It identifies movement. It
identifies and embodies exquisite beauty. And for lack of better words,
your being. Is spectacular like a sunset. What you are being. Obviously
has purpose behind it. But not passion. It has joy behind it. It has
peace behind it. And it has love underlying it. And the magnificent of
what you be. When you give up your independence. is or embodies. divine
order of such magnitude that one would say it evidences great power. I
would not recommend following your passion. I would recommend following.
What emerges from your heart. That blesses your fellow man. By
uncovering in him or her. The greatest potential he or she has because
you recognize their divinity. In such a way That it does not inspire in
them defense against the uncovering of the best in them. None of what
we're talking about is a matter of achieving personal success in any
form. Your gift. The gift That God's creation of you constitutes in the
universe. Will never be something that you as a tiny entity can take
credit for and be proud of. It is only you in the context of the whole
and your willingness to fit in and be a part of and be in need of every
other part. Who can thereby Become the obvious flagrant evidence. Of
God's creative power. And of the love that God is. And thereby fulfill
what you might call your purpose for being. I know. This is not
satisfying to the ego. This is not what the ego wants to hear. And it
does not seem to promise satisfaction or fulfillment. But I am pointing
you in exactly the right direction. So that your real function, your
real purpose for existing. Which was set in place by the Father, not by
your imagination. Can come forth. Without anything standing in its way.
And thereby Constitute you glorifying God. Now, If you are not God, but
God is all there is of you. Then in your love and glorification of God.
You end up glorifying yourself. You end up glorifying the presence of
God that is right there where you appear to be apparently as a separate
independent entity. And so your glorification of God. illuminates God
because of your love for God. And that love that you glorify God with
ends up illuminating you more brightly. Which ends up being a blessing
to the rest of the brotherhood. But this universal effect. Will never be
the result of a private personal passion you have to do something good.
Because that private personal passion will constitute a stepping away
from God so that you might have a personal passion. And a personal
accomplishment that will say something about you personally. And in
doing that, The illumination of you dims. And everyone else suffers in
the loss of the light, that it is your function to be sharing and
extending. At the bottom line ultimately. The father's will is your
will. Your will is not in any way distinctly different from the Father's
will. And because it is not in any way distinctly different, you can't
find. God's will and your will being identical to God's will. It's all
God. And your experience of this is your joy. And your experience of
this is what gives you the capacity. To be love. Unconditionally,
Unreservedly. But you know, most of all, It allows you to come into a
conscious experience of oneness with all of creation. And intimate.
Conscious experience with all of creation in which every aspect of
creation shares all of itself with every other aspect of creation. It is
a glorious experience. And what you would call every aspect of creation.
You might say sits in observation of the movement of all of creation.
Which God is being. And which no part of creation is viewing with a
separate private perception of and Again The joy of the movement of
creation that God is being. is the conscious experience and the
conscious gift. Which every aspect of creation shares with every other
aspect of creation, and the joy is so infinite, you might say I cannot
find the correct words is so infinite and so glorious that it is
inconceivable. That there could be any other more significantly
meaningful experience.

