---
 title: Come out of the closet
 audiofn: Come_out_of_the_closet
---

## {{page.title}}

Be more conscientious. In the way you give attention. To your day and
the events in the day and the people you encounter in your day. Because
it doesn't matter what the individual's name is, that one is the Christ.
And you are the Christ. And your Christhood lies in a place of
excellence that is right in the middle of each one of you. Which you
tend not to connect with because you're so busy defending yourself
against the threats in your life and in your world. But you know what,
you're not going to have a transformed vision or experience of your
world. Until you abandon the self-protection you're engaged in. And you
go to that place of excellence in you. Knowing that from there you're
going to have a different point of view. You're going to be looking at
everything differently. And then dare to go ahead and look at everything
differently. It's not going to change until you start doing this. And
I'll tell you, you're way past the time of saying I'll let them do it
first. When you're here with me. Or when you're with me in the
withinness of yourself. You will find that Our camaraderie. Our
communion will always be directed toward The changes you need to make.
In order to Manage To free yourself from your fixation. On how you think
things are. Because you're in the middle of the kingdom of heaven,
you're in the middle of reality, perfect, flawless, harmonious.
Beautiful. Unconflicted being. You're in that it is you right now. And
not to be experiencing it is ridiculous. There's just no reason for
further delay. Or further laziness. Because even if you're experiencing
a comfortable misery, it's not your birthright. And besides, it's like
um all of us who are awake are hollering at you and you, you have
yourself sitting in a little tiny closet. Inside your father's mansion.
And we're all saying, come on out and play, come on out and play, and
you say, I'm busy, I'm busy, I'm busy. I've got to keep defending myself
because everything is so terrible. And you've been doing this Maybe for
lifetimes. And you don't realize that the fact that you're hearing a
voice that says come on out and play, come join us in reality, come join
us in Unwalled, unblocked in fullness. The fact that you're hearing that
voice is demonstrating to you that there is another place beside your
closet. You don't realize that that's A miracle You don't realize that
hearing this voice saying, Join me. Come on out is The second coming Oh,
well, if it was a 2nd coming, that would get your attention. And I'm
telling you this is the second coming. It's the 2nd coming out. It's the
2nd coming out party. I had mine. Now it's your turn. Something
Immeasurably significant is happening when I say join me, reach out to
me. Don't keep yourself locked in to your sense of tininess. Because I
am here and all of the brotherhood who is awake is here with you. And
because you're hearing my voice. Because you're hearing my intent to
connect with you. You have significantly abandoned your commitment to
being ignorant. The fact that you are hearing me is earth shaking.
Something stupendous. is occurring In the fact that you are hearing my
voice. That you are hearing my intent to love you and embrace you and
That I am inviting you to join me consciously. Because In reaching out
to me. You're reaching out of the closet. Into territory that's always
been present and available to you to experience. You've always thought
that this would happen. After you die. Or somewhere off in the future.
But your closet has been right in the middle of the kingdom of heaven
all along. In the present, In every moment of conscious experience
you're having. You're having this moment of conscious experience in the
middle of reality. As an individuality who is real. Divinely real, my
equal. My brother, my sister. So you've been being in the kingdom of
heaven. For God knows how long. Saying I'm not in the middle of the
kingdom of heaven. I'm not the Christ. I'm not the direct expression of
God. I'm not the presence of God expressing Himself. I am what I think I
am. I think I'm just a hunk of matter. A hunk of meat. With a piece of
meat in my skull that somehow thinks. And, and the, the mind in that
piece of meat in my skull, um, is called an ego. And this ego that I am.
Lives on a huge hunk of matter floating in physical space. And because
I'm a descendant of The animals I'm basically ferocious. And I basically
survive at the expense of Everything else And that's the way it's always
been, and that's the way it always will be. And that very finite. Mm,
uncomplementary definition of yourself and life is all that constitutes
the closet. That you're sitting inside of. Right in the middle of the
kingdom of heaven. You are all the direct expression of God at this very
instant. You are the Christ at this very instant, my equal, my brother,
my sister. Refusing to accept that as the truth. And remaining committed
with all your might. To a different interpretation of things, your
interpretation, the one you get a whole lot of satisfaction out of
having created for yourself. Instead of just accepting God's truth. The
divine truth about yourself. And so you are missing out on so much you
couldn't believe it. And the way you get out of this closet. is not by
battling The demons in your mind that fill your closet that you have
filled your closet with, but by abandoning the self-protection against
your foes and enemies and the threats in your Perceived world and
opening the door to the closet and coming out and playing with the rest
of us. In the middle of the kingdom of heaven. Consciously experiencing
reality for what it truly is.

