---
 title: Comfortable ignorance
 audiofn: Comfortable_ignorance
---

## {{page.title}}

If you get more holy and more spiritual, so that you are creating a
beautiful temple. It's because you have found others to join with in.
The dea leaf That such activity will protect you against. Something We
will protect you against violence. It will, it will protect you against
your ego. By thinking loving thoughts and expressing loving thoughts. It
will protect you against. The baser motives. That are natural to human
beings. And it might even cause An evolutionary shift. Where mankind
We'll start to move in a new direction, physically, of course. As part
of the physical universe, as part of the actual physical evolution. You
see This is still occurring in the realm of ignorance. It's still
occurring. Without having Even thought of or brought up the idea. That
there is a relationship between you and God and there is a connection
for you to be experiencing and that when you turn around toward God and
open up to that experience, that that's going to bring you back into
your right mind where evolutionary jumps are nonsense. And we're
behaving nicely. Doesn't mean a heck of a lot more. Then behaving badly.
Except that it's a little bit more comfortable for you in your
ignorance. I will tell you something. If everyone on this planet.
Managed to find a mutually agreed upon way. To work together.
Harmoniously Everyone would be very grateful. And if given the
opportunity to have 10,000 years to experience it. They would find
ultimately that it would be an empty experience. Because the connection
with the altar would not have occurred yet. Even though everyone worked
together beautifully. And awakening The evidence of atonement. would
still be awaiting everyone.

