---
 title: Coming home
 audiofn: Coming_home
---

## {{page.title}}

When you set yourself apart. You're on the outside. It's unnatural
Because it's actually impossible, and you can only imagine that you have
become separate and on the outside. Being part of the family is divinely
natural. Fitting in is divinely natural. And it's not just fitting in
with each other. If all of the family is fitting in with God. Then all
of the family. Constitutes an infinite expression. Of the beauty and the
order and the uniqueness. And the originality of the movement of
creation that God is. And each member of the family. Constituting A
unique part of this infinite movement of God. Experiences it's Place As
Utterly fulfilling Utterly satisfying. Because yet each individuality.
Has the experience. Of being perfectly on the beam. And of fully
fulfilling its or his or her purpose for being. And when one is hitting
the mark, And perfectly being what he or she is. It is an experience of
Indivisible integrity. That is unchallengeable. Unthreatenable. And
therefore safe. And because it is perfectly being. What it is. There is
The joy The joy of knowing. That it could be doing nothing better than
it is being at the moment. And knowing that what it is perfectly being
at the moment is making A contribution. To the whole brotherhood. That
the whole brotherhood is feeling and experiencing joy about. which the
individuality Experiences back. In other words, you not only experience
the joy. Of the experience of utter perfection. You experience the joy
that all of the rest of the brotherhood is experiencing at your being
perfect. And so it is compounded into a universal. Expression of joy.
You, you cannot imagine the, the scope of the joy. Of fitting in And
being part of God expressing Himself slash herself. I extend an
invitation to you and to you. To trust into the flow of being, to be
willing to yield to the movement without having it pegged, and to be
willing to Forever yield. To forever be The place where thy will be
done. is occurring and being embodied. That's called coming home. And
this is what will transform what you call the world.

