---
 title: Committed involvement
 audiofn: Committed_involvement
---

## {{page.title}}

You've got to remember what this is all about. It's about joining, isn't
it? It's about Breaking the isolation. So therefore it's about not being
alone. It's about union. Unity Communion It's about Reuniting the
family. So what is the piece for? What is the reason for Finding your
peace. The reason is so that once having found it. You might extend it
to your brother. You might engage in Involvement. You see, this is not
about. Finding your bliss, finding your peace, and experiencing your
enlightenment and flashing out of here. This isn't about you.
Individually It's about you breaking the isolation. And from a place of
a clearer experience of what love is, becoming involved with your
brothers and sisters, expressing that love. It's about forgetting the
self that you think you are as an isolated entity. It's about bringing
yourself. More clearly and more beautifully into relationship with your
brothers and sisters. So at the bottom line, it's about healing
relationships. And so involvement means Bringing love Into those places.
Where your ego would have said love is not deserved, back out, be
separate, stay away from him, stay away from her. She's trouble. He's
this, so on and so forth, you see. If you think That the atonement and
awakening is about you and you alone becoming clear. And going home.
You've missed the point. When you turn to the altar. And you say help,
you say, Father, show me the truth here. You are wanting to know the
truth here. So that you might extend it to your brother. In committed
involvement. Why committed Because Loving your brother is something you
do fully. Or you're not loving your brother. And so all of this is
about. Learning to become still and experience your peace. And then
experiencing the influx of love that naturally occurs when you are not
inserting yourself into this. So that you might Turn to your brother and
sister and love them fully. Committed to bringing whatever you can. To
your relationship with them. For the purpose of blessing them. You want
to feel the Father's love. So that you may fulfill your function, which
is to be the presence of love. Not just Glowing somewhere in the void.
With incredible colors of love. But with love that embraces. Deeply
embraces your brother and sister. Where there is involvement.
Involvement that is presented with commitment. Love that is presented
with Faith in your brother. Faith That is felt So that your brother
knows that it's not a tentative expression of love. It's not a trial.
Experiment In relating to them. With love To see the Christ and to
address the Christ in them is not. A spiritually disconnected thing
where here's this dirty stranger, but you're going to address. The
Christ in them. That is somehow above and beyond or behind what you're
seeing there, you see what I'm saying. You must recognize that that the
one standing in front of you, whether fat or thin, ugly or beautiful.
Tall or short is right then and right there. The Christ You approach
another seeing the worth in them. To save the Christ in them is to take
it all the way. To the ultimate So that you are addressing the ultimate
right there. Where the one who is unlovely or behaving in an unlovely
way is.

