---
 title: Completed unity and communion
 audiofn: Completed_unity_and_communion
---

## {{page.title}}

There are those of the brotherhood who are awake. But The simplest way I
can put it is That our being awake is not completed until you are awake.
But until you are consciously experiencing it, You cannot join in the
communion. That is unity. And so part of Our Conscious experience of
union. is held up from being experienced. Because you are distracted by
your processes. And your commitment to your perception. And so You could
say We are not experiencing our wholeness completely. Because part of
our wholeness being experienced is your experiencing yours slash ours.
Yours, which is inseparably part of ours. Yours Which is inseparable
from you experiencing yourself and all of us together as ours. There are
those who would say that. If you are awake If one is awake, why would he
bother with you? Well, Because you are part of me. You are part of the
infiniteness of me. And as long as that part of the infiniteness of me
is insisting on isolating himself to his own private personal
interpretations of things. I can't enjoy full conscious communion with
him. And so, You could say, well, it's self-serving. For me to help. But
it's not a selfish, self-serving. It's because although you don't
recognize your unity with me, I do. And you are embraced, consciously
embraced by every one of us who are awake, not just me. You are
consciously embraced. Supportively. But not manipulatively. In your, you
might say, Being distracted from your distraction. Long enough to let
something else register with you. Because that's where the communion can
occur and that's where the beginning of unity. Occurs.

