---
 title: Conscious experience of Eternity
 audiofn: Conscious_experience_of_Eternity
---

## {{page.title}}

You are living in the middle of the kingdom of heaven. You are living in
the middle of eternity. There's no time occurring right now, right here,
but through the use of your imagination. You, uh, are seeing and
experiencing time and a conceptualization of Infinity as being on a
timeline with an infinite future and an infinite past. And so you are
experiencing a misperception of eternity right here, right now in the
middle of eternity. It is impossible for you to conceive of the meaning
of the word eternity. The closest you could come to it would be whole
mess. Infinitely all-inclusive wholeness in the now. By releasing the
future and the past from your consideration. And letting your awareness
be brought to the moment you're in, and then letting that moment be
snuffed out. That's where the transition into the conscious experience
of eternity. Occurs Reality is not off at a distance. Right now, right
here in this room. You're experiencing eternity. But you are
experiencing it through a sieve. You are experiencing it through a
filter. A highly complex filter of Definitions which you have applied to
the kingdom of heaven. And eternity Including this concept of life being
a timeline. Moving from the past to the future. What I want you to
understand is That reality, eternity. The divinity of everything. The
divinity of you. All of this is just a shift of perception away right
here. And it will be a shift of perception about everything that is
right here. This is why I say, be curious about every single thing
you're experiencing because in a moment of Defenselessness. In a moment
of Looking with innocent eyes, innocent of preconceptions. It can all
change. Not that it will change. But what you're allowing it to be in
your experience will change. And more truly represent reality. But let
the curiosity be present here and now. Because it's not off in the
future that you're gonna wake up. It's gonna be in the, in the moment
that you look defenselessly at the orchid. Or the glass of water. Like
What in the world does that mean? What in the world is that? You see,
And then shutting up and allowing the answer to be revealed. More than
that, letting the answer be revealed by the very thing you've asked the
question about. You don't have to ask your guide what's the meaning of
that orchid. Ask the orchid. Be open to it. Because it has the full
means of conveying to you. What its meaning is, that is its gift to
convey its meaning.

