---
 title: Cornerstone
 audiofn: Cornerstone
---

## {{page.title}}

The one thing. The cornerstone that the builders rejected is That all is
God. That all is spirit. And that includes you. And your function. is to
be that consciousness which recognizes God. In everything you see. Your
function is to be that which glorifies God by recognizing the divinity
of absolutely every one and everything, including yourself. So when you
reject the cornerstone, when you make the one simple rejection of the
godness of everything, and then look at everything minus God and give
your definitions to it all. No matter how many definitions you've given
to it and no matter how much work you do to bring your assessment of all
of those things you've defined into perfect balance and into perfect
equilibrium where you love and appreciate them all equally, you are
still flat out in the dream. You are still flat out unconscious of the
goodness of it. You haven't brought God back into the picture, and yet
you are using all that God is as the basis for creating the definitions
you want to give to all that God is. So you're using reality to your own
ends. While ignoring what reality is. And where you fit into it. And
rather than witnessing to God, You are choosing to witness to
definitions you have given to everything. In other words, You are trying
to enjoy. A position of authorship. That was never given to you. And
therefore you can't have Even though you can imagine you have it. And
make commitment to that imagination. And thereby create a belief. That
you believe

