---
 title: Correcting another
 audiofn: Correcting_another
---

## {{page.title}}

You have abandoned Let's call it the observing self, the inner watcher,
the divine one who knows it's his function. To recognize and acknowledge
the divinity of the one he is observing. And so you lose your balance.
And you lose your way, and you shift into reaction to the other as well
as to your memory, your habitual way of looking at things, then you try
to enforce it and all this time. You're not connected to the observing
self. You're not remembering that it's your function to love one
another. When you are confronted. With distracting ego behavior that
pushes your buttons. Don't try to respond yourself. You've got to
practice saying, what do I need to say here? What is the answer here? I
want not to be distracted by my conditioned responses to that one's
manner of expressing herself or himself. I want not to be distracted
from remembering what is true and coming from a loving place. And if it
means you can't respond at all because you can't get into the place
where you can feel the love, then don't respond. It's not up to you to
change someone else. Witnessing for another's divinity. It is not a
means of correcting them. I cannot make any of you wake up. I cannot
make any of you do anything. But I know. That in the loving expression.
Of the answers. I do provide the environment in which you can decide for
yourself to change. I can look at you and see all of the things that you
are doing that are self-defeating. And I could say I ought to be able to
change them. I know the way things work. But I can't. If I become
aggressive and assertive, And try to force you to change using all the
logic at my disposal. You will miss the logic entirely and respond to my
aggressiveness, and you will defend yourselves and close the door. So
don't labor under the false idea that because you have a certain amount
of knowledge and experience that you have the means to correct a bad
situation in someone else's life. The only one who can correct a
situation in their life is the one whose life it is. It's as simple as
that, else you would all be awake because those of us who are awake
would have woken you up. You want to know something? It requires what
could be called pitiful patience. That's love. But it's also intelligent
because we don't have any other choice but to wait until you are ready.
It's frustrating I understand the frustration at observing someone who
is handling their life poorly and suffering from it and knowing that
what you know could make all the difference in the world. But you don't
have that option, and that's not your task. And you will stop
frustrating yourself. When you stop thinking that you ought to be able
to do it for them. Or force them to see the truth that would change
things for them. Now Just because you can't change them doesn't mean
that you can't be an expression of clarity that provides the optimal
circumstance for them. To change And that's the way you witness for them
on their behalf. And you witness and witness and witness for the answer
without frustration and without any coercive attempt to make them
change.

