---
 title: Corrective learning
 audiofn: Corrective_learning
---

## {{page.title}}

Correction means. That something occurs which causes you to actually
change the way you behave. Corrective learning. is learning that causes
you to behave differently. In an improved manner. Corrective learning.
Always begins with the awakening of spirit. And I'm going to Use the
word spiritual sight. The influx of revelation, the influx of a new
perspective. That actually causes you to see things differently. Because
it connects you with an experience of the divine. Not just the
experience of God, the divine. But also the experience of yourself as
divine. And therefore, the turning away from the belief in physical
sight. Whenever you have what I'm going to call insight. An event of
spiritual sight. It moves you to a new level of clarity about yourself
and everything else. In a context of a divinity that is all inclusive.
So that you feel Not only specifically Real With a capital R But you
feel grounded in a reality that is far more infinite than what you had
been embracing. In your conscious awareness up to that point. When the
Holy Spirit looks at you. Its whole function is To bring you into an
understanding and experience of yourself. That goes beyond your current
misperception. So that your misperception is corrected. And you can be
in a new way. And I have said before, That the Holy Spirit is your
divinity. Held in trust while you dally with the ego. Do you see how
holizing that awareness is? Because it's your divinity. That is willing
to look beyond your current misperception. To uncover the truth that
it's a misperception of. So that you might come into A truer experience
of yourself. And correction can successfully occur. You often think of
the word correction as chastisement. But correction is to be changed. To
be made new. That's what correction is. It's not punishment. It's
healing. Everything that results from spiritual awareness. is merely
channelized toward correction. And discomfort occurs because of the
Unchangeable sanity. Of your being So that when you are attempting To
act at odds with your being. You Get feedback. Without the feedback you
could become Totally insane. Without hope for healing. No one makes you
uncomfortable. God does not set up circumstances for you to be
uncomfortable. The Holy Spirit doesn't make you uncomfortable. I do not
make you uncomfortable. None of us need to. It says it's like if you
take your finger and bend it backwards. The harder you press, the more
uncomfortable it is because you're trying to make it do something that
it doesn't do, that it's not made to do, that it can't do. No one has to
set the experience up for you. It's just the way things work. If you try
to be at odds with your being, you will be uncomfortable. Discomfort
will be aroused. Because of the simple sanity of your being. Discomfort
is aroused only to bring the need for correction into awareness, which
means to bring into your awareness that it's sensible to stop pressing
your finger back in a position it doesn't go in. So that You stop If you
are uncomfortable, it means that you are Acting, behaving in some way at
odds with The wonderfully divine way your being works. With the
wonderfully Perfect way That God's expression expresses.

