---
 title: Creation
 audiofn: Creation
---

## {{page.title}}

In the Bible, there are 3 accounts of the creation of creation. 1 in the
New Testament and 2 in the Old Testament. The one in the New Testament.
is the simplest. The most straightforward. The one that is so simple
that it Bypasses everyone's grasp. Of the totality of its meaning. It
says In the beginning was the word. And the word was with God. And the
word was God. In the first chapter of Genesis, That very simple.
Rendition Of creation is fleshed out. Wherein it says, And God said, Let
there be. Light, let there be this, let there be that. Let there be
plants and let there be cattle. And let there be whales and so on. And
then God charged all of what He created. To be fruitful and multiply.
And then it says that on the 7th day, because in order to flesh it out,
a structure had to be provided a storyline you might say. Even though
creation could not have taken time to occur. And on the 7th day God
rested. There was completion. And then it says And God saw everything
that he had made. And behold It was very good. Which really means and it
was very good. And I have said before, That a clear understanding of
that statement can be found in these words, and God saw everything that
he had made, and behold, it was verily or really God. So In the
beginning was the word. And God said, Let there be. And the word was
with God. And God saw everything that he had made. And the word was God.
And behold, it was verily God. Creation is finished. Creation is
complete and Creation is the movement of the mind of God. Which God
sees. And recognizes himself in. It is all about God from first to last.
It is all God. So Where, where, where's this Adam and Eve? Well, In the
2nd chapter of Genesis, it says, But they went up a mist from the
ground. Well, let me ask you this, if you are at a movie. And You see
the uh the image on the screen begin to waver and shift and become
mystified and uh unclear and then resolve itself in a new scene. You
naturally assume that You have shifted into a different reality. It is
easy to assume that, and I encourage you to, uh, assume that when you
read after creation has been completed. And a whi a mist went up from
the ground. And then there's a key sentence. It says, and there was no
man to till the ground. But you know what? The way it's written sounds
like the lead in to what follows. But it's really the conclusion. To
what has already been written. Creation does not include a man. To till
the ground. It does not include a man to make his mark in the world. It
does not include a man. To Exert authority. And change creation. It does
not include a man. To give definition to everything. Because God has
already defined it completely. and charged it to Be fruitful and
multiplied to flourish. So According to this, Second creation. God
creates man from the Earth And breathes into it life. And then He causes
a deep sleep to occur because Adam is lonely. And needs a helpmate. Just
beginning to sound familiar. Because we're beginning to describe The
realm of mutually agreed upon definitions. And without a helpmate. How
can there be a mutually agreed upon definition? Right? And so he takes a
rib out of Adam's chest and from that makes woman. And The rest is
history literally because history is a record of time. That an eternity
is an illusion. And everything that follows from there on throughout the
Bible. is a record of illusion. It is all based upon. The trials and
tribulations of being a man or a woman to till the soil. And to suffer
through and survive the human condition. The moment that mist arose in
the story. Everything became an example. Of life of creation. Being
experienced through a glass darkly. Through the distortion. Of mutually
agreed upon definitions. And a, I'm going to say a conscious ignorance,
ignoring. Of reality that doesn't require a man to till the soil. That
doesn't require a woman. To slave and sweat over a stove. and labor. So
Be careful when you have fun at the expense of women or when you have
fun at the expense of men because there ain't no such creatures. You
see, you might have been tempted to believe that the fall occurred after
Eve tempted Adam. That the illusion began after Eve tempted Adam and he
agreed to join her, but the illusion started. Where the mist rose from
the ground. And it's an important thing to understand. If you don't
understand it, you can buy into the idea that uh you are all descendants
one way or another of Adam and Eve. Since they are The first one's
capable of being parents. And Even if you hadn't thought of it that way.
In the more immediate present you do see yourselves as descendants of
your parents who are descendants of their parents who are descendants of
their parents and then you don't usually think much further back than
that. But you can't be. The descendants of your parents because you are
the direct expression of God. And you embody all that God is. Mind
Experiencing itself. And recognizing itself in the experience, this is
very key. And I didn't want to let it escape your attention. You see,
waking up isn't about getting back into the Garden of Eden. It's about
getting back before the Garden of Eden. Before the mist arose from the
ground. Before the whole The story of an existence separate from God
began or seemed to begin. I want to mention something that we've
discussed earlier. That you have no private thoughts. It's, it's
relatively easy to um engage in the um uncomplimentary assessment of
women as beguilers. Temptresses In fact, if you're a man, You can make a
point of looking for the best temptress you can find. But what I want to
point out to you is that because none of you have any private thoughts,
because you truly aren't separate from anything. Every thought you have.
is beguiling. Every thought you have is tempting. Every thought you have
is an invitation. That goes out from you like a messenger looking for
that which confirms it. It invites. Adjoining in agreement. Every single
thought, whether it's a hateful thought. Whether it's a loving thought.
Whether it's a thought that finds its basis in the Version of creation
found in the 2nd chapter of Genesis or whether it's a thought that finds
its basis in the 1st chapter. And so everyone Who's thinking. is
engaging in beguiling. Or is engaging in making an invitation. To
acknowledge the truth. Your thoughts are either seductive or they are
illuminative. Either they seduce another or they promote the
illumination of another. I'm not saying this to convict anyone of
anything. But to point out something that happens unconsciously. If
you're not aware. That you're not the offspring of Adam and Eve. If
you're not aware that no such Form of creation. Ever took place at the
hand of God. No matter what great religious books you read. You will
find Attempts to account for existence and so you will find a creation
story. The clearest account of creation is in these words. In the
beginning was the word. And the word was with God. And the word was God.
So That means the word wasn't you. And that means That you are The word
that is God. It means that you are God. In action, in presence, in being
right now. And that's What waking up is the discovery of. Whatever
everyone thinks happened after the mist arose from the ground. Did not
change creation as it is represented in the first chapter. What you
think you have done has never happened. It's as simple as that. You
cannot possibly be in the frame of mind, the mutually agreed upon joint
frame of mind. Wherein mutually agreed upon definitions have occurred
and seemed to have caused. A different experience of reality than what
it really is. The clarity of being awake shows you that you never were.
In a dream. And because you never were in a dream. And because you
always were present in reality as who you really are. The memory of who
you in your right mind were being all along is returned to you even
though you weren't paying any attention to it. For all that time because
you were preoccupied and committed to your definition of everything. So
whatever lies you believe can't actually, can't actually block you from
waking up, can't actually um Cause you to be undeserving. Of knowing and
experiencing the truth. And therefore it can't hold off your realization
of the truth in any way.

