---
 title: Death is a Sacrifice
 audiofn: Death_is_a_Sacrifice
---

## {{page.title}}

Now The simple fact is, That if you're not careful, You can fool
yourself into believing. That you're doing all right when you're not.
Now I'm going to get heavy handed here. Sacrifice is what the ego
requires. And you know what, the ultimate sacrifice that all of you are
bound to pay. As long as you Insist on hesitating to claim your place as
a son or daughter of God. Is death Now, No matter how much You've read
the course? No matter how long you've listened to me, You still tend to
say, well, I don't know anyone other than Jesus. Who didn't die, who
overcame death. So, I won't make that demand on myself this lifetime. I
know that in spite of the truth that I'm hearing, there's no death, uh,
I know that in spite of the fact that I might die, there is no death.
Some of you uh say, well, I wouldn't want to live to be 200 anyway. I
don't wanna be around here that long. I want to get on to other um Other
new adventures, other, other experiences of life. Why would I want to
hang around, especially after all my friends have gone. I wouldn't, I
wouldn't want to get to be more than 85. Why the hell not? Why not live
forever? Why not be without going through some miserable. Experience
called death. So that you might have another lifetime and repeat the
death and another lifetime and repeat the death. Along with all of the
suffering. And physical diseases and traumas and damages that occur
throughout a lifetime. Because You don't know about your invulnerability
from it. Or you just don't wanna take that radical a stand or that
radical a step in this lifetime. And so you, you say. I will accept from
God all the blessings that He will send to me. In this lifetime. And
hopefully I'll learn enough to be able to be more graceful and more
consistent with the truth of me in the next lifetime. That sacrifice
That is sacrifice that you value, and I say you value it because there
are no red flags going up in your mind, saying, stop that. This is
insanity. This anger that you have about The human condition And the way
you use it to manipulate your brothers and sisters. is not there for
that purpose. It's there to serve as a red flag. So that if injury
occurs or sickness occurs. The flag goes up. And you don't say, well,
what can you expect? We've talked in the last few weeks about radical
idealism becoming practical realism. To leave this place. Doesn't
require that you die. That's like saying if you want to go to Hawaii,
you've got to die. No. You can get on a plane or you can get on a ship.
Or Maybe In the clearer experience of what you divinely are, you can
simply teleport. You know what? Sacrifice is for the shits. There is no
value in it. It's a delaying tactic. It simply blocks realization. It
blocks healing. And Recognizing that. And noticing red flags going up,
when you're confronted with some illegitimate uh deprivation, That's an
indication of waking up. And it's an indication that you're not valuing
sacrifice anymore. And it's an indication that you're getting the
message. That you're hearing and understanding what I'm talking about.
Now, Teenagers Aren't much interested in considering Abandoning
sacrifice, because they, they think they're not sacrificing anything
whatsoever. And 30 year olds or 40 year olds or Aren't much thinking
about it either. Although things are beginning to give them pause. So
that maybe they're considering God a little bit more. But there's still
not really as a general rule. Looking at the ultimate sacrifice. But get
to be 60, get to be 70, get to be 80. And now there's a willingness to
look at. What I'm talking about But then The tendency is to say, well,
I'm tired out. There's not enough time for me to get it. I probably
won't get it. You know, this needs correction or that could be fixed,
but what's the point? I don't have that long left. But on the other
hand, if you knew you had another 5000 years left, would you put up with
or would you tolerate an ache or a pain or a blurred vision or A canker
sore on your lip. No, a red flag would go up. I say, man, a canker sore
on my lip for eternity that would be hell, not heaven. Now, when you put
up With little discrepancies. When you put up with. Little irritations.
Or when you put up with things that are bigger, But don't incapacitate
you. You're just valuing sacrifice. And you're employing sacrifice. And
although on the one hand, you fool yourself into thinking that that's
OK, on the other hand, you're pissed off underneath. But you say,
there's nothing I can do about it. Except, I can blame everyone else for
it. And I can mistreat them and I can abuse them. To get them to make me
feel better. And so I'll do that. Rather than abandoning what's creating
my problem. So You engage in sacrifice. You frustrate the hell out of
yourself by doing it. And then you blame others, so you won't have to
feel the distress. And you can get them. To comfort you. And to do
things that you think will make it all worthwhile until you can finally
die. Which you have no compunctions about. Hell, everybody's done it.
I'm not gonna expect anything different. Well, that's what should be on
every gravestone. I didn't expect anything different. You know, When we
talk about sacrificing your life. Whether it's from old age or from
serious injury or accident. We're talking about something. That needs
correction. We're talking about something that is the result of an act
you engaged in that you can undo. And you undo it by indulging in and
engaging in the holy instant. That Place in Where you have abandoned
thinking. But you haven't abandoned being conscious. And you allow
yourself to be present with everything as conscious awareness. With the
curiosity to know of that which made it all. What the truth about it is.
Because you're the son or daughter, you're the expression of that which
made it all. When you Engage in that conscious joining. You move into
that place where the laws of God prevail. And nothing else does. You
give to God his fatherhood. By rejoining with him. And you get to keep
your sonhood, your sonship, your Daughterhood You get to have it once
again. Because you're not blocking it. And so in the holy instant. In
which communication occurs. Conscious two-way connection occurs,
communion occurs. Suddenly God's laws once again prevail as your
conscious experience. They never stopped prevailing. But you lost the
conscious experience of them prevailing. And you have the conscious
experience of them once again. What's happened? Oneness has been
established. What you give, you get to keep. That means The stability of
unity has replaced the chaos. Of divorce The chaos of separation. Where
God's laws prevail. You are and you will find yourself to be. Forever
The epitome of the perfect expression of God. Disease will be absent.
Deformity will be absent. Sickness will be absent. Death will never be
imagined. Damage Or injury Or any limitation. That's inconsistent. With
The infiniteness of God. That you might have been experiencing before
the holy instant. will no longer be present. You will no longer seem to
be old. And if you decided To embrace the holy instant. 3 minutes before
you were going to die. Having lived to be 112 years old. Feeble And
almost not functional. You will find all that crap. Gone you will find.
The perfectly stable in balance. Manifestation of God. That God is being
and has been being as you all along. It will be present. It will be what
you're conscious of. You won't be 3 minutes away from your death, nor
will you be old and feeble. And I'll tell you, you, in your full
conscious awareness of yourself, will realize that you're far older than
112 years. That you are eternal and have forever been. What you need to
understand as we're reading all of this is That you're engaged in a
process of abandoning illusions for reality, for a distorted experience
of being to a clear minded, divine experience of creation. In the middle
of creation happening. In which you are no more separated from it all
than God is. Nor are you any less aware of it in all of its infinite
detail and variety than God is. Where you will sit at the threshold of
the unexpected. And not be ill at ease because you're out of control.
Not be ill at ease because you haven't designed, consciously designed
the next moment in all of its infiniteness. And you will sit with God.
At the threshold of the movement of being that's called and looks like
and feels like creation in absolute perfection. Now we're talking about
making a shift. Not through death. From misunderstanding. To clarity, to
understanding. We're talking about The Son of God Abandoning a poor use
of his mind. And making room. For the original function of his mind by
invitation. So that what happens is a sudden shift of perception. A
miracle. Now, These sudden shifts of perception had better include the
disappearing of a wart. Or the correction of vision. Or the
instantaneous Eradication of injury and its effects. Hell, this is, this
is called a course in miracles. It's about the miraculous. Not the
ordinary. Not the orphanage. So, don't be so lackadaisical. Because as
you can see in your lackadaisicalness, you're embracing sacrifice and
you're reinforcing. The repetitive experience. Of dying Which won't
work. Which is why there's another chance. To die And it won't work, but
it provides another opportunity to die. To suffer To uh not feel your
righteous indignation for what it is. But to experience it as anger.
Rather than the clear awareness that what you are experiencing is
illegitimate. And doesn't have to be tolerated, and you don't even have
to annihilate it. You simply have to not embrace it anymore because the
red flags went up. And you said, oh, No thank you. I'm not accepting the
invitation. I'm declining the invitation. Father, what is the truth
here? I refuse to um attend the uh The banquet at the orphanage, where
they're recruiting new orphans. From amongst the brotherhood of God. No,
no way. Be careful. There are many ways in which you have justified
death. And there are many ways in which you have Justified sin and
disease. And in many cases they've been elevated. To places of honor.
Oh, she deserves to be a saint. He deserves to be a saint. He sacrificed
for the benefit of everyone his whole life. Wow, You hear that, you
think, maybe there's some benefit for me in that kind of sacrifice. I
don't really want to engage in it, but if the payoff is really good, It
might be worth it. And so I'll play the fool for so and so. I'll be less
than the holy Son of God that I am. For the gold star So that I can Sit
next to the Son of God in heaven. All the while, On the bus or the.
Street car or the plane you're sitting next to the holy Son of God.
Already Why do you think you're suddenly going to recognize that you're
sitting next to the Son of God after you die because you sacrificed so
well. You're not. That's the bad news, that's the good news. And I tell
it to you so you don't keep running after this carrot. Thinking you're
actually going to benefit from it. You don't like bad things to happen,
but You're not surprised when they do. Why not? Um, because you deserve
it, or probably you deserve it. Oh, it's, it's bad karma. It's from
something I did in the last lifetime. See, I mean, you, you can pull up
justifications for what's illegitimate. From any imaginative source. And
why do you even do it? Why do you indulge in it? Because you're feeling
guilty. Because guilt and fear go hand in hand. When you've lost
communication. Not communication with each other. But communication with
Your source You've lost communication. With that which is responsible
for your being. And the holy instant is the reestablishment of that
communication. You know what, even if at the moment you can't seem to
see the possibility. Of radical idealism becoming practical realism. At
least noticed during this coming week. When you Not willing to embrace
it as a possibility. At least notice. When you are feeling that the
probability is That there won't be any translation of radical idealism
into practical realism. At least notice it. Oh, I know you're gonna say.
How depressing. If it's depressing, It means you don't know what to do.
With a trigger to a lesson. You don't know what to do with the trigger
to a learning. If you actually realize The degree to which you can find
yourself. To an orphanage. In which the experience of Fear and guilt
Frustration And the ultimate expression of anger. is a never ending. Uh,
environment of your being. You will actually begin to think that There
might be some practicality. In Trying out something different. Not just
having a positive attitude. But actually attempting. To find out whether
it's true. That there is such a thing as a holy instant. And that it's
experienced when you're willing to dishonor. All of the meanings you've
given to everything. And engage in a curiosity to know what everything
really is, and to want to find out what it is from your father. Or from
the Holy Spirit. That which is nothing more than your right mind. Now
that's one of the best. Kicks in the seat of the pants that I've given
in a long time. And as you experience levitation. And fly through the
air a little bit. At least Well, I haven't had this experience before.
Man, he administers a swift kick, but Well, I'm levitating. Uh, I'm
going to embrace what he's saying. The fact is that no matter how Much
you value. Sacrifice It will never be accomplished. And an eternity of
never accomplishing something is not what you were created for. I love
you. And I look forward to being with you next week. And I hope you look
forward to being with me next week. Because You're not sacrificing as
much. As you have been. And you are joying. In the freedom

