---
 title: Disciplined thinking
 audiofn: Disciplined_thinking
---

## {{page.title}}

The one that recognizes a connection. Between their poor beliefs, their
poor thoughts, and what happens in the world is. Experiencing greater
clarity. Which leads to what would be called greater social conscience
or greater social consciousness. So that they actually can arrive at a
point. of disciplining their thoughts. Training their mind. So that they
are not thinking idle thoughts, careless thoughts, unloving thoughts.
Why? Because to the degree that you are disciplining your thinking, And
employing your thinking for the purpose of expressing your best beliefs.
Or for the purpose of convincing yourself of the need to ask for help
and break the isolation, you are lessening the density of the dream and
priming yourself for a breakthrough where you actually. Experience a
sudden shift of consciousness, a miracle. That puts you in an entirely
new place. So that you become an even more significant contributor to.
The awakening of mankind. Part of the involvement means Don't let parts
of your day be taken up with idle, negative, judgmental. Opinions and
thoughts. About your brothers or sisters, your acquaintances or your
enemies. That's not your function. And I promise you that as long as you
find that a valuable activity to engage in, you are absolutely blocking.
Your ability To feel the presence of the Father in you, illuminating you
more clearly to you so that you Become a transformational presence with
your brothers and sisters. It keeps you from turning to the altar. And
until you turn to the altar. And reach beyond Your ego-centered mental
activities. You're still going to experience isolation and all of the
hell that accompanies it.

