---
 title: Disconnected perspective
 audiofn: Disconnected_perspective
---

## {{page.title}}

Here it is in simple language when you turn your back on the altar. And
you consciously dissociate yourself from your connection with your
source. You become preoccupied, as I said. With the uh glow, with the
evidence of the presence of the altar. And fear is immediately present.
You don't know what it is you're fearful of because you don't know why
you're afraid. You don't realize that you're afraid because you've
turned your back on your very being. Now You're looking at the effect of
the presence of the altar, the glow. And You decide to use the glow. To
defend yourself with and you can defend it with beauty or you can defend
it as an armament as armor. And What are you going to use to beautify or
Strengthen Armament To provide a beautiful facade. That constitutes a
distraction from the essential you or to strengthen a fortress. Well,
the only thing for you to do anything with, the only thing you're ever
confronted with is reality, the kingdom of heaven. The infinite
manifestation of God and so you will have to take some of the infinite
manifestation of God. To strengthen your fortress. Or you will have to
take some of the infinite manifestation of God. To create more exquisite
distracting beauty. In other words, you will start using effects,
manifestations to strengthen. The manifestation of your defense. The
evidence of your defense. This is called level confusion. It's confusion
because You have two choices. The real choice of turning around and
facing the altar. And feeling into the presence of love that is at its
center, which is God being all there is of you. Or You have the option
to keep your back to it. And use more of the manifestation of God. To
keep you safe. Against other aspects of the infinite manifestation of
God that you are going to defend yourself against. Do you see what I'm
saying? The glow The effulgence Around the altar. can only respond to
Let us say The manipulations that a Son of God applies to it. When the
Son of God has forgotten that he's the Son of God, And that to use some
part of God as a defense against some other part of God is utter
foolishness. When you look, At creation. With your back to the altar and
therefore disconnected from the father's perspective about creation.
Because creation is alive. Because it is manifesting life, it appears to
be able to be aggressive and therefore a formidable enemy to protect
yourself against. It doesn't just sit there in a static state. Because
it's the evidence of God Himself. And so one can come to the conclusion.
That the foe is aggressive. Intelligent and able to direct its attention
toward you negatively. Which is why You assume You must be ready to
defend yourself against this active aggressive foe. And yet the only
life the foe seems to have is the life that creation itself is perfectly
expressing. In a God-directed way.

