---
 title: Discerning reality
 audiofn: Discerning_reality
---

## {{page.title}}

Judgment is called for. In your process of yielding to the Father. In
your process of waking up. There is a great tendency. To look at things
that are going on and say, Like I said before, it's an illusion, or
that's just their perception. And never arrive at a point of saying this
works and this doesn't. This reflects God and this doesn't. You have to
make a distinction between the tears and the wheat. And you have to cast
your vote. You have to learn to recognize what is real and what is
unreal and commit to what is real and withdraw your commitment from what
is not. And you can't stay in a safe, noncommittal place where you're
saying, That's just your opinion. Or that's just your perception, or
that's just their perception. It's not real anyway. And refrain. From
making the distinction. Between what is true and what is not, and
committing to what is and withdrawing your commitment from what is not.
Again, we're talking about becoming involved. Not talking about having
an opinion. You're going to have to ask the Father, is this real or not?
You're going to have to make distinctions or you are forever going to be
stuck in. The mutually agreed upon definitions. Your mutually agreed
upon definitions are not true. And until you are willing to look at them
squarely to find out whether they are or not, so that you can see that
they are not, you won't know how to make the correction. And if you
don't make the correction, it goes on uncorrected and you're still in
the dream. One way or another, you're going to get off the fence, and
I'm not going to let you forget that that's what you're here for. And it
means involvement. It means caring enough to discern what is true and
what is not, so that you can withdraw your investment of energy and
attention from what is not true. Because until you invest your energy in
what is true, you will not be embodying God. And you will not get to a
happy dream.

