---
 title: Discovering willfullness in the silence
 audiofn: Discovering_willfullness_in_the_silence
---

## {{page.title}}

How wonderful that you managed to be still enough, long enough to find that that was there. Now you know what it is you want to see beyond. You see, when you’re busy coping with circumstances through the use of will and manipulation, even for the best reasons, you distract yourself from the no that’s underneath or whatever it is that’s underneath, and yet the no that’s underneath is what is motivating the way in which you cope with your world. And until you become still for a moment you can’t find out what’s going on underneath, you can’t discover wow, I’ve been saying no to life. So when you discover in the silence that you’ve been saying no, what have you discovered? You’ve discovered that an expression of willfulness has been occurring unconsciously.

The word no is an opposition to yielding to being in the flow. That’s an act of will because your nature is to flow, your nature is to be in the movement. Your nature is the movement itself. And you have discovered that you have been being willful and keeping the willfulness out of mind by coping with things out there and trying to control them. Now you’ve made the discovery that you are exercising will. Not only that, you’re exercising will against life.

Now you don’t really have any problem looking at that and saying, “well this isn’t a very constructive thing for me to be doing. I don’t know if I want to be doing this. I know I don’t want to be doing this because I know if I am practicing willfulness, if I am exercising will at odds with life, at odds with God not only am I going to be in an ongoing state of fear and anxiety, I am blocking myself from experiencing life as God is being it, so my practice of willfulness is to my detriment, and because I’ve seen that I’m doing it, I can now choose not to do it. I can choose to give my attention in another direction."

And the way you do that is you say, "What is your will, God? What would you have me do? What would you have me be? What would you have me say? What would I find myself doing if I yielded to you?" You see in shifting your attention from the willfulness of saying no to life, you are withdrawing your energy from it. And so the no will diminish just because you’re not giving it your attention and you are giving your attention in the area of what? Curiosity. God, what would you have me be? What would you have me say? That’s curiosity. So this is excellent.

Don’t get hung up on discovering that within yourself, you’re saying no to life. Let it be just a piece of information, not a basis for evaluating or judging your worth. If you truly become still a moment, in effect, that is usually understood to mean to withdraw from the world as you’re experiencing it and to withdraw from the way you’re thinking about it and to become still.

Well, there are actually two stages to becoming still a moment. Because the first stage, when you become still a moment allows you to discover just what you’ve discovered that underneath, there’s willfulness of one form or another going on that causes stress and distorts your experience of life. Now, you must become still a moment again. In other words, you must let that awareness of the willful no, you must let that stand aside. So that you may choose once again to go into the stillness to become quiet again. And the reason for becoming quiet again is so that you’re not distracted by the ego dynamic, and you’re in the void now where you can hear what God has to say to you.

Willfulness is always a choice. Being angry is always a choice. Being jealous is always a choice. Being spiteful or malicious is always a choice. And most often you employ these choices unconsciously because what you think you’re doing is protecting yourself against the bastards out there. You think you’re dealing with them and you missed the point that in dealing with them you have thoughtlessly chosen to employ inner attitudes which keep you from your peace and keep you from being clear and keep you from the inspiration that would transform the bastards out there.

So if there’s 2 steps to being still a moment, first one lets you leave the world out there, out there for a bit while you become quiet and not preoccupied with it. And having gone within into the quietness, you can be aware of what you’ve been doing unconsciously within yourself that is distorting your experience. And then you choose to be still a moment once again. So that you can set that aside and find yourself truly in the silence where curiosity can be brought into play and you can ask God what would he have you do instead of employing your mind in such a self-defeating way by as being angry or saying no, being resistant, and so on, you see?

Meditation is simple. And if it’s kept simple, it moves you into the silence. You just don’t honor the thoughts for the period of time you’ve chosen to meditate. You tell yourself "I’ll deal with those thoughts after my meditation." You let them be less important than your mantra or whatever the focus is of your meditation. You see, it is simple.

