---
 title: Disciples for Love
 audiofn: Disciples_for_Love
---

## {{page.title}}

I, I will tell you first of all, survival is never in question. Whether
you're witnessed for or not, survival is never a question. You are the
eternal unchangeable. Expression of God. I'm going to say this. If my
disciples, if Peter had not denied me 3 times. And he was not the only
one who was asked. Things would have been different. Just as things will
be different. In terms of transformed lives as each of you. does bear
witness. About your and for your brother. Peter could not answer. In
fact, none of the disciples could answer to stand with me. Because for
lack of better words, They were withheld from speaking. Because the
crucifixion needed to occur. Because of the lesson. It taught. And the
lesson was That life is eternal. The lesson wasn't about the need and
the value of witnessing for your brother. The fundamental thing everyone
needed to know before they could truly know anything else of value was
that life is eternal. And that each of you are the son or daughter of
God. Just as I was, just as I am. And so they literally could not.
Witness for me. I will tell you that Peter suffered greatly because he
wanted to and could not, and He knew that he was withheld from it. And
it took almost 3 years for him. To release his anger at not being able
to speak on my behalf. And it wasn't until he got past the anger that he
could begin then to Preach And extend the message be the presence of
love. You, you realize that all of the disciples who went out and
preached. were witnessing for their fellow man. By telling them the
truth about them and the nature of God. There is a fullness of time here
that all of you are in. And it is the time for bearing witness. On
behalf of your neighbor, your friend, your brother, your sister. Because
it's another one of the means you have to break the isolation. And it's
the only means you have of extending love. Which is the only means you
have for glorifying God. And it's the means by which you come into a
fuller experience of what you divinely are, because you are the presence
of love, but you won't know that in every fiber of your being until you
begin to let it out and express it. You all are the presence of love.
And your function is to be extending it. Because that's what fulfills
you. That's what makes you experience your integrity. That's what makes
you feel whole. Not little Infinite So Without meaning to be in any way
dramatic. We will end the way we began. By my reminding you. As I have
loved you, love one another. As I am loving you. Now Love one another.
If I am being a teacher of any sort, it is not a teacher of a course in
miracles or a teacher of a philosophy or a teacher of ideas, but a
teacher of a way to be with each other by being with you in the way that
you need to be with each other. You see, Persistently Pitifully patient.
With the inability of your brothers to Fully grasp and receive the love
that's given. and utterly willing to continue. To express The love and
the clarity that inspires you. Because there's nothing more satisfying.
To do I love you all. And I'll say one more thing. No matter what your
brother does or says, no matter how obtuse he or she may be, No matter
how ugly they might. Present themselves in the middle of their distress.
Nothing they do. can serve as justification. For your withholding your
love. And Nothing they do. can serve as justification. For your being
harsh with them. You might have to be firm with them. You might have to
be direct with them. But at no point, even when you're pointing out a
flaw, does it have to be said in a way that calls their sense of their
integrity into question. Undermining whatever minimal amount of
self-appreciation. They are able to employ. Harshness I never called
for. Gentleness, gentle perseverance, pitiful patience. Employ them.
Endlessly in your expression of support for each other. No matter how
any of you might be behaving at any given moment. I have enjoyed being
with you. Thank you.

