---
 title: Distancing communion through fear
 audiofn: Distancing_communion_through_fear
---

## {{page.title}}

What's scaring you It is not what it really is, but your misperception
of it, and so you've got to stop right there where the scariness is
occurring. And reach beyond your spontaneous. Definitions based on your
past experience to say, Father, what is the meaning here, Father. How do
I see the wholeness of being identified here where I am afraid that lack
or loss is going to occur? You must persist in substantiating the
connection. Because when you become afraid. Scared It means you have
already Withdrawn. Into a private perception. And out of the communion.
And out of your connectedness, your connected experience of the allness
of God and therefore not connected where. The uncovering of the movement
of God that has to be happening there can be revealed to you as what it
really is. Yes, it gets scary. But it only gets scary to your ego
because it means that It can't be in control. And you are not honoring
your ego, and that scares your ego. Because the one thing, as I've said
that the ego cannot Defended itself against his disregard. So yes, yes,
it can seem to get scary. That's not inevitable But when it does, it
means that you have been willing to distance yourself from the
communion. And look at it all by yourself. And you've got to reverse
that. So the ego throws out the uh this fantastic suggestion. That you
may be able To experience clarity and be in your peace in this
situation. But that doesn't mean that everyone else will and everyone
else still has their mutually agreed upon definitions of everything with
which they try to get to govern you and that will put you at risk. And
therefore, It may not be wise. For you to continue to yield to the flow
because it will cause you to be vulnerable. Now The fact is that
conflict. Cannot be experienced in unity consciousness. Conflict can
only be experienced by one who is choosing to look at things by himself.
And so the one who is afraid that he could be at a disadvantage. Even if
he is clear. Because others are. He is seeing The inevitable conflict or
is experiencing the inevitable inner conflictedness. That is inseparable
from Having been willing to look at things privately. And therefore has
lost. His peace Which is the fundamental element of unity consciousness.
In which If he had chosen to stay there, he would find himself able to
be utterly appropriate. Whether others seemed to have seen the truth or
not. And that resolution will occur and vulnerability will not. But that
takes trust. And that takes willingness. And it takes someone who is
awake. To tell you what is happening so that you can recognize it and
dare to trust where you couldn't have mustered up the courage to do it
based on the insufficient information you currently had.


