---
 title: Divine Love embodied
 audiofn: Divine_Love_embodied
---

## {{page.title}}

You are lovable. Love is forever extended to you. And love is What your
creation embodied and so you are love. You are divine love embodied. The
very substance of you is love. And so just as I said that you can't be
lost and awakening is inevitable. It is inevitable that you will stand
in receipt of the love that is extended to you. And it is also
inevitable that you will come into the conscious experience, the full
conscious experience of being love itself embodied and extending. And so
everything is on your side. Absolutely everything stands in ready
support. Of your transformation. The transformation of your conscious
experience. By virtue Of your willingness. to let go of personal
control. And it's important to understand this. It helps reduce your
fear. While at the same time necessitating. The bringing into play of
faith. Trust And as I've said before, there's a Great difference between
trust and confidence. Trust Means becoming aware of your need. Feeling
needy. Becoming defenseless. So that something can be let in. And daring
to do this. Without knowing for sure that what you're letting in. is
trustworthy When Self-confidence and self-responsibility. And self
respect. When the achievement of these has been drummed into you. As
being the most important thing. Related to being a civilized human
being. Then you are. Inversely being taught. That to depend on someone
else is a faulty action. And a dangerous action. And in the context of
that teaching of self-reliance. Of Sovereignty and independence. You are
of a mind. To automatically distrust anyone else enough. To entrust
yourself to them. And that's why the element of trust is so fundamental
to waking up because trust must be present in order for a relationship
to occur. And in order for defenses to be let down enough for connection
to be felt. So, Doing this can seem difficult. Not because it's an
untrustworthy process. But because you have been Overly trained. In
self-reliance and therefore, The Unstated danger of Meeting Others and
Letting down your defenses. And becoming dependent upon them. The only
reason you don't let go instantaneously into the direct experience of
God is because you don't trust God. And at the bottom line, When it
really comes down to brass tacks, you're not even sure that you believe
in God. That there is a God But if you're going to put your life on the
line and say, God, help me. You're going to come up against any lack of
belief in God that you have, and you will have the glorious opportunity
of being able to move through it and begin to have evidence of His love
in practical terms in your life which will allow each additional step to
become more and more graceful, but there is always going to be that.
Experience of risk. Because you have been conditioned to find everything
other than you to be untrustworthy. OK.

