---
 title: Divine Beings
 audiofn: Divine_Beings
---

## {{page.title}}

What do I do all the time? Eyewitness for you on your behalf by not
bringing up all your faults and your flaws and condemning you for them,
but by reminding you of who you are and not agreeing with you. When you
express Unclear concepts about who you are. And I don't agree with you
when you believe those unclear concepts. But I also don't say to you
that's a flaw you have. I say it's a misunderstanding you have that you
can become clear of if you will remember who you divinely are, and I
talk and talk and talk about. What you divinely are. And what your
relationship is with your father. Who is the source of your being right
here and right now? And I say in spite of the fact that you see
yourselves as physical organisms, you are not. You are divine beings
right here and right now and this physical body you think you have. is
nothing more than pure divine energy. Which has the intent to identify
what God is being right there perfectly and that therefore it's your
ally. And that it is It is something that will always identify you
eternally because just as God unidentified is nonexistent God. You
unidentified are nonexistent you. And since you're the expression of God
and are therefore as eternal as God, then what you see sitting here and
what you feel sitting here in these chairs. It is eternal also, and if
it seems to you to be capable of becoming sick and dying. I'm telling
you it's not a divine fact, it's an illusion that each of you has the
option to. Let yourself have the experience of. And so I'm constantly
witnessing to you on your behalf. So that you don't get bogged down or
you don't remain bogged down in unclear. Concepts about who you are and
what this is. And when you don't get it, I tell you again. I don't get
frustrated with you. You don't need someone being frustrated with you
when you're not getting it. You need someone who talks to you in a way
that makes you feel like, yeah, I didn't get it, but no big deal, and
therefore, I can persist in trying to get it. And I don't have to defend
myself. I don't have to waste my time being distracted from. Getting it
by Proving to you or somebody else that I am not as bad as you think I
am. The way I am treating you is the way you need to treat others.
Someone Who stands there with them on their behalf. With unending
encouragement, no matter how discouraged they get. With unending
encouragement, no matter how nasty they get because they believe their
discouragement. And someone who By their lack of criticism conveys. That
the other one doesn't need to be self-critical. And conveys that here's
a safe place. To be And that therefore less defense is needed. And in
the absence of defense. There's a greater willingness to see things a
different way. Love one another.

