---
 title: Do you Believe in Healing
 audiofn: Do_you_Believe_in_Healing
---

## {{page.title}}

OK. Tonight, we will not be reading from the book. And so before we
begin, Let's take a few moments to be quiet together. Good evening. And
welcome to everyone who's joining us on the internet. I'm gonna ask you
a question. After all of the Gatherings we have had. After all of the
course and miracle study groups. Do you believe in healing? Do you
believe in healing? Well, what do I mean by healing? I mean, the return
of the situation. Or a condition To its Spiritual, original. Its
original divine status. Healing Isn't just having a better attitude.
While lack Or injury Or illness Still seems to be present even though
it's in a benign form. That isn't really threatening. But does represent
an incapacity. On you or an environment. That doesn't allow it to
function. Naturally and normally. In other words, Healing I redemption.
In all respects, not just emotional or mental. But in what you would
call tangible, physical. Um, Terms Do you believe in healing? Do you
believe in redemption? Where injury I no longer present. Or observable
And there is Nothing. To indicate or infer that there ever was an
injury. Or an illness, uh, a physical malfunction. Healing Is the
eradication of that malfunction. So that any thorough physical
examination Will show no evidence of abnormality of any sort. Now,
Healing does apply to situations as well. You get word unexpectedly.
That you're going to be evicted from your apartment. Or you get word.
That the company is cutting back. And you're going to be laid off. You
weren't in the best situation. Before you heard the news. And you have a
family. My God, You have a problem. Now What is the problem? A problem
is a situation. That you don't have an answer to. A problem is an
assertion of lack. That will be quite effective in your life. That you
do not have an answer for. It's the not having the answer. That
constitutes the problem. Not the circumstance. And that's important.
When Something comes up in your experience. Of this sort Perhaps also
it's a. Notification that you have? An incurable disease. That won't
kill you, but will debilitate you. Or maybe it is a Terminal disease.
And there's no cure for it. Again, You're confronted with a situation
that you have no answer for. And you've been told that there is no
answer for. Meets the definition of a problem. And under those
circumstances, Fear sets in. Now, Fear is itself debilitating. It causes
one to become dysfunctional, even non-functional. It finds its engine,
if you will. In your belief. That nothing can be done. And it becomes so
distressing. That you Become obsessed with the fear. It gets more and
more of your attention. And it is more and more upset upsetting. And as
a result, you are in no mental shape. To here. The answer The
redemptive, corrective answer. That brings the situation or the
condition back into its original divine stature. Now We've been talking.
For a long time. About the holy instant. And that its practice is one of
doing the two-step. Which means, as you know. Shutting up, shutting up
what? Shutting up your thinking. Shutting up the fear. And in the
silence asking. What is the answer here? Now what Needs to be better
understood is this. Fear has nothing to do with the problem. Or the
solution. It's all about itself. Again, Fear has nothing to do with the
problem. Or the solution. It's all and only about itself. That's why As
you engage fear, By choosing to activate it because you don't have an
answer. And you don't think one is available. You, uh as it were. Put
yourself into a closed circuit, a circular circuit. Which is repetitive.
And magnifies itself through its repetition. It distracts you, actually.
From the situation that you have defined as a problem. You become
preoccupied entirely with the experience of fear. And because In its
obsessive form. It Suggests That the only solution. is to mount A great
defense. You become self-centered. Not problem centered or solution
centered, you become self-centered, self-protective. Which is arrogance
And then you become angry, which is self-righteousness. And then When
you hear me say The answer is the holy instant. And that you need to
shut up. And ask of the Father, what is the truth here? You, because of
your preoccupation with fear, Ask the question. What is the truth here?
Through the lens of fear. And so, when you ask, what is the truth here
about my being laid off? You think you're going to here. That you're
being laid off because you were lazy. Or because you were misunderstood.
Or for some illegitimate reason, which you can do nothing about. You
see, You Through the lens of fear, believe, and that the truth is going
to convict you and leave you dangling there. In the problem. And that is
a misunderstanding, and that is what I am meaning to clarify tonight.
Because fear. Has nothing to do with the problem or the solution. You
can Abandon it. Except that's not easy, because you are obsessed by it.
Nevertheless, I'm telling you tonight. And you had best write it down so
you can remember it. Fear has nothing to do with the problem or the
solution. Therefore, To abandon fear. It is not irresponsible. It is not
dangerous. And it will not put you in the presence of threat of any
kind. Because in the absence of this fear, That seems so all important
to you. You will have peace. And in peace. You can reach for the answer
that is redemptive because redemptive is healing. Redemptive is the
bringing of the situation back into its divine original. State When
you're caught up in fear. When you're obsessed by it. It's almost
impossible for you to listen to the words, God loves you. Or the words
You are the direct and full expression of God. From whom God has
withheld nothing of what he is. In your creation, It's hard to hear
that. Because your fear is that you are irreparably damaged and it's
uncorrectable. And you're in the problem. Because of some innate flaw in
you. That's what it boils down to. It boils down to a conviction of Your
incompetence. Or that you deserve the problem. I've heard many students
of the course say. When Another student is having a problem. I wonder
why God is giving you this lesson. I wonder why God is giving you this
problem. There must be some learning in it. And in this, the problem
becomes legit legitimized. When It is. Nothing. But an illusion believed
to be real. That hasn't been challenged yet. Now, As I said, the problem
is a problem because you don't have the answer. When you abandon. The
practice of fear. Even though you think you've been overcome by it from
some external source. When you abandon the practice of fear, You are in
a position To step into The holy instant. To step into The void To move
into the pregnant silence. Where the unknown can become known. And here
you are At another juncture, Where the remnants of fear Can suggest to
you. That you have trouble hearing guidance. Or that for one reason or
another. You are not going to be likely, it is not likely that you're
going to be able. To hear the voice for truth. Or gone This is where you
have to remember that there is a God. Even though you're experiencing
Doubt of one sort or another. It's essential Because Redemption is
inevitable. Redemption, the experience of correction, the return to the
spiritual original. I I'm going to say ordained. But the only reason
it's ordained or inevitable is because God being all, never stopped
being, never stopped being, God being all. And that fact is going to
have to surface. It's inevitable. That the allness of God will surface
as something that has never changed. Therefore, When you practice the
holy instant, And you ask what is the truth here? You are. Employing
Faith You are investing faith. In the Father In the Holy Spirit. In your
guide, in me. That The answer That redeems Will be made clear to you.
Even though you don't know what it is. That is the whole point. The
point of the holy instant. is to return you. To what you don't think you
know. But which you do know. Because the father placed it in you. And
his Eternally placing it in you. By being you in every moment. As what?
You in your own right, with your own personal capabilities, no, as
himself, expressing. Are you getting the point? Here's the point again.
In spite of fear, In spite of distress. Abandon it. As unreasonable as
that seems. At the moment you're employing it. Abandon it Because I've
told you tonight. And repeatedly in other ways in the past. That the
practice of the holy instant. Is the means to remember God. By caring
about your brother. Or carrying about. Some part of the kingdom of
heaven. That you're presently calling a physical universe. And desiring
to know God's truth about that. You are inviting. What you have
forgotten. To be remembered To present itself again as it were, to you.
So that you might see that it's already incorporated in you, and it
never left you and your capacity to see the kingdom of heaven, where a
miserable physical universe seems to be going on. The holy instant is,
and the practice of the two-step is a matter of leaning into the unknown
on purpose. Letting yourself not know. Not requiring that you know
before you lean into it. Before you lean into the Father. Before you
lean into. Your right mind. It is a practice of leaning into the
unknown. So that the unknown can become known to you. It's called
revelation. It's inevitable. It's the way waking up works. It is how the
holy instant functions. You see, To say you have a problem because you
have an You have a situation that you don't have the answer to. is to be
stuck in a A total lack of reason. Um, a simple case of insanity, as if
you will. If there is a situation calling for correction, correction is
available. If there is a situation that does not look like the kingdom
of heaven, Or the perfection of God being. Then there is available that
which corrects it, even though you don't know what it is. And you will
not know. What the redemptive answer is. Until you let yourself not know
what the answer is. Which means Abandoning Any confidences you have in
yourself. To be able to come up with the answer. Through the excellent
use of reasoning and logic. And your best use of your Spiritual
learning. In the past You see, Until you abandon self-confidence. You
can't really With humility Turn to God And ask him to reveal the truth
to you. To reveal the answer that is the answer. To make the unknown
known to you. And yet that is what needs to happen. You see? You no
longer need to labor under the misunderstanding. Of what the question
means. What is the truth here? You no longer need to labor. Under the
idea That it is somehow going to convict you. Oh, it's karma. 3
lifetimes ago, 100 lifetimes ago you did such and such, and now it has
returned to haunt you, you see. All that does is legitimize and
consolidate the uh The factors That Keep you ignorant. Stark Miserable
It's not the answer. That's not the unknown, having been made known. To
ask, to know what is the truth here. is to be a joyous. Question, a
joyous process. Because you can anticipate. Learning something
exceptional. Something beyond anything that you would imagine. From your
independent standpoint. You have to have faith in two things. One is
that there is an answer that redeems, and the second part is that the
answer will be made known to you. If you, but Humbly Ask to know what it
is, and then listen. Without biasing the answer. With any
preconceptions. Or favorite theories. That you have Faith is the big
word. that underlies the efficacy of The holy instant Because it
requires you to abandon faith in yourself. This miserable puny little
organism. That sins, suffers, and dies. And placing your faith in
something. That you can't have proof of the existence of Until you. In
your humility, reach out to it. And expect a response. In the response,
you have the proof. You see, It's very important It's very important.
Answers Redeem Fear has nothing to do with the problem or the solution.
It's all about itself. Abandon it? And the situation That you were
calling a problem that warranted the fear. will be a situation calling
for an answer that does exist. That you can count on the existence of.
So that you may in your peace without fear. Shut up! And asked to know
Father revealed to me. What the redemptive answer is here reveal to me
the good news. That has nothing to do with the problem as I was
perceiving it. And all of the imaginative justifications that I was able
to come up with for having the problem. And therefore condemning me. To
suffering You see? The practice of the two-step. I guaranteed to work.
But you will not dare to let the answer in. Until you are willing to
believe. That the answer will not convict you but release you. And it
will release you by revealing God. In every aspect of the situation. In
God's perfection. Which will mean The disappearance of injury. And the
evidence of injury. It will be the Permanent remission. As a terminal
disease. Or a not so terminal disease. It will be the returning. To the
spiritual original, everything about you. Including your awareness. That
you are unequivocally worthy. Of God's love. Which means His sharing
with you. His answer. That transforms your mind. As well as your ability
to see the tangible evidence. Of the truth of what God is being. As a
redeemed world. That will be obvious to you as the kingdom of heaven.
But you must dare To believe in healing. To begin with And you must dare
To silence your fear. And you must dare to lean into the unknown with
the confidence that what was unknown that redeems the situation will be
made clear to you, revealed to you. And the joy of it The joy of it will
inspire you. In every other situation. Where the holy instant Needs to
be practiced. Presents itself And you will not get hooked by fear. Which
is all and only about itself. And, and you will move, I will say from
glory unto glory until the transformation is complete in you. And fear
And Ultimate self-righteousness simply no longer occur. This is the good
news. Between now and the next time we get together. I want all of you
to. There to practice leaning into the unknown. Expecting the unknown.
To reveal itself to you as the known. As redemption Not conviction. And
lean into it constantly. All day long every day you are not seeing the
kingdom of heaven. And so the redemption of your vision is Available for
you to access. Constantly As an adventure, if you will. You think? This
should lighten your load. And cause you to be able to cast off illusions
that burden you. Falsely I'm very grateful. To be able to spend this
time with you. And to share these things with you. Because your practice
of them. Well Awaken you. So that we may enjoy our brotherhood without
illusions. I love you all, and I look forward to being with you next
time.

