---
 title: Do you Believe in Healing  Part 2
 audiofn: Do_you_Believe_in_Healing__Part_2
---

## {{page.title}}

OK. This evening, we are going to continue our discussion of healing.
And so, Before we begin, Let's take a few moments to be quiet together.
Good evening. And welcome to everyone who's joining us on the internet.
Last week I asked a question. Do you believe in healing? And we
discussed. The subject at length. As a result, it brought up some
interesting Responses That provide the opportunity for Further
clarification. A need for further clarification because There is a
certain amount of confusion which Actually stands in the way of healing.
There were some of you who Found that you believed in healing in the
sense of Something being returned to its spiritual original stature.
Like yourselves. That you do believe. That You can be healed of your
ignorance. And returned to the full. Comprehension and experience of
yourself as the holy Son or daughter of God. As God originally created
you. But The belief was or is That What you call the body. Is not
redeemable. Because it is an illusion. Some of you, uh, believe that
when you look at your body, you are seeing an illusion. And therefore,
There's truly nothing there to be redeemed. And yet right there is where
healing. I needed The Confusion lies in the Idea That An illusion. Can
exist in its own right. As something just as real as God's creation. And
therefore you can have an experience. Of an illusion, even a universal
experience of illusion. Which uh Can be called the physical world and
universe. And that this Has absolutely nothing to do with creation with
a capital C. The movement of God. Now, The The correction of that lies
in realizing that when you're looking at your body, you are not seeing
an illusion. You are seeing a misperception of something that is real.
Now, I'm getting ahead of myself. I am going to express the idea tonight
that there are 3 postulates. Which need to be part of Every Practice of
the two step you engage in every practice of the holy instant. Every
practice of, we'll say, Your spiritualization. Now In the Bible, Is the
The idea is expressed. In the beginning was the word. With a capital W.
And the word was with God. And the word was God. Now there literally is
no more succinct way to express the idea. Which is the first postulate.
That God is all. What is a postulate? A postulate is something that is
assumed to be a fact without proof. Or put another way. Something that
is self-evident. Now, Whether you believe it or not. Whether you think
the postulate that God is all is true or not. It is essential. Adopt
this postulate. Together with the other two. In order to arrive at the
experience that proves its truth. Now, You've heard me Express the idea
that you are neither behind the point of perfection. Nor advancing
toward it. You are at that point. And must understand yourself
therefrom. Now that's another way of saying, You are the holy Son or
daughter of God. John in the Bible said, now are we the sons of God. And
it does not yet appear what we shall be. But we know That when he the
Christ shall appear. We shall be like him. For we shall see him as he
is. And every man that hath this hope in him. Purifieth himself daily.
Even as he is pure. That hope is another way of expressing the practice
of the holy instant or the two-step. And the The phrase is interpreted
to mean that every man that hath this hope in him purifies himself
daily, even as he, the Christ is pure. But it really means that Every
man that has this hope in him. Purify himself daily. Even as he The one
purifying himself daily is pure. Again, A way of succinctly expressing
the fact that now are we the sons of God. That you are now the holy Son
or daughter of God. That's the 2nd postulate. First postulate, God is
all. Second postulate, you are the holy Son or daughter of God. You know
these are all in the present tense. It doesn't say God will be all. And
it doesn't say you will be the holy Son or daughter of God. No, God is
all, and you are the Holy Son or daughter of God. Now the 3rd postulate.
Is the one most difficult. To embrace because of your conditioning. And
that is the world and universe are. Present tense The kingdom of heaven.
The world and universe are the kingdom of heaven. Now if God is all Then
God being all. is the only event there is that's going on. That means
that you Are the holy Son or daughter of God because God is all there is
to you. And it means that the world and universe that you call a
physical. Material World and universe. Is the kingdom of heaven. Because
nothing is going on that isn't God being all. You see how those three
postulates. Express A singularity. And this Singularity with three
aspects to it. Is the reason. That the promise of the course. Can be
fulfilled. In other words, atonement. In other words, your awakening. To
your divine stature. These three postulates. Are the reason there can be
healing. Now, What does this mean? And we've talked about this before.
But not, not in quite this way. Not in this three aspected. Fundamental
absolute truth of being. Now, Do you see? That there is no movement
toward. Or progress that is going to be made. To finally arrive at. A
state of perfection. The state of perfection, the allness of God, is
already the only thing going on. And when you practice the holy instant.
When you do this two-step and you shut up, you silence all of your
confidences, all of your beliefs. And you allow yourself to be in the
not knowing place. And you ask to know what the truth is here. The truth
is going to reflect those three postulates. Now, I have said before That
it's a, it's an excellent practice to look at anything in your world,
whether it's a table or a flower or A bug And desire to experience the
more of what God is being right there than what you are currently
seeing. Now it's the same thing with your body, if there seems to be
injury, or if there seems to be illness or a malfunction of some sort.
Or a blemish of some sort or a disproportionate. Balance Of all of your
physique. There is no matter. All substance is spirit. And the substance
of spirit is love. And love is illumination. Light And so When you are
willing to look at your body. Desiring to see the more of that. Than
what you've been educated to see. You are leaning into the unknown.
Because it's not your experience yet. So that it might be revealed to
you and become the known. So that you have half a chance, quarter of a
chance, 1/100 of a chance, because it doesn't really take any more than
that, of Seeing The redemption of your poor concept. The replacement of
your poor concept which you are projecting on. The visibility and
tangibility of the Son of God. Allowing What never was true to vanish. I
know Ashes to ashes and dust to dust, you lay the body aside in the
ground, dust to dust. Send it back where it came from. Crap. Don't
believe it. It's not true. God's creation. Is recognizable. It's
identifiable. It is experienable. God Moving looks like something. It
can't help but look like something. And feel like something and be
something. Now, Uh, I know that makes it sound as though form is real
and yet. In the course I said form itself is an illusion. Here's what
that means. Form itself. Is an illusion The reason being that there
can't be any such thing as form itself. For all by itself. There isn't
any such thing as form itself. Form is always, I'm going to say, the
rendering visible of the movement of creation, the movement of the mind
of God. It never stands. By itself of itself. Because there is no such
thing as form of itself. You see? But That is the way The body and the
world are being interpreted presently from the standpoint of physics.
From the standpoint of the uh Materialistic hypotheses that are put
forth as an explanation of creation. You treat yourself as though you
are a body, that you are a the particular form that you identify with
yourself. And we've talked about this at length. You're identifying
yourself with The form Instead of with the conscious awareness in which
the experience of form is going on. And so when you shift your attention
to the form and you say you are the form, You are talking about form
itself. On its own Obviously having no connection with God and the
universe itself having no connection with God, with a divine movement.
With a capital M Something that instead happened from An unexplainable
big bang. That said Material processes. Into motion. And voila you have
an illusion. You have something standing on its own with nothing behind
it. No. Creative movement. That it is the visibility and tangibility of.
You see, And that is The belief structure, out of which everyone is
moving, who is engaged in waking up. Do you see what I'm saying?
Whatever has been separated from A creative movement. Of a first cause.
Is A form Itself. A form on its own. And like a light bulb not plugged
into the socket. There is no light, and it is not a light bulb. There is
no function. You see? This is important. Why? Why? Because. There is
right where you are. The visibility and tangibility. Of you Of you the
movement of conscious awareness that you are because God is being that
as you. And That Is not form itself on its own. But it is The gathering
together of what I'm going to call energies, energies of spirit, of
love, of life, of truth, of principle of mind and soul. That render the
meaning of the movement experienable. In other words, When you look at
your body and you say, I am seeing an illusion. The truth is that you
are looking at The spiritual original. Of the movement of God. And
misinterpreting it to be A physical organism having nothing to do with
God, therefore, being an illusion, therefore being something not capable
of redemption. And as long as that is your foundation, You will not see
healing, you will see sin, disease, and death. It's that simple, not
because sin, disease, and death are characteristic of The visibility and
tangibility of you. But because you are Inflicting yourself with A
misperception. Practicing it. And in practicing it, engaging in a denial
of what your body is. You see, That is always uncomfortable. Your divine
sanity will always present itself to you to say stop doing this. It is
impossible. You cannot succeed. Stop wasting your time. Get back on
track. In other words, get back in touch with the three postulates.
There is no matter. There is no material universe. There is the kingdom
of heaven. The substance of which in infinite variety and form.
Identifies the infiniteness of God. The movement of Divine mind. That is
experienced. As the kingdom of heaven. You see, You are neither behind
the point of perfection nor advancing toward it, you see, God is already
all. You can't get to it. You haven't gotten away from it. And so all
day long in every way you are confronted with the allness of God and the
you that is being confronted with the allness of God are the holy Son or
daughter of God yourself right now. That's why when you stop arguing
against the facts. Healing, even instantaneous healing occurs where in
the only place it can. Your experience. Your body is redeemable. There
is a spiritual original of it which you are looking at every time you
look at it. Because it is already present. Your intention. To see beyond
your current limits. is bound to succeed. You see, Not because you're a
powerful healer. But because you are abandoning, The practice of denying
the already present truth of an already present omnipotent, omnipresent,
omniscient God. This is not a world to escape. Mortality is not a
condition for you to get beyond. It's a, it's a mindset for you to
simply abandon. Stop validating it and how by becoming curious. What is
the two step is it not? An ultimate practice of curiosity. You shut up
your current mindset. You reach outside of it on purpose. And you say,
what is the truth here. What is the ultimate truth right here. Right
now, That is ultimate curiosity, and as I said last week, when you lean
into what is currently unknown to you. It can become and will become
known. And once again this is not a head trip. It's the real kingdom of
heaven. Which is the only thing confronting you at any moment. Being
observed by The sun Or daughter of God. Right now, Because that's all
there is to you. No matter how limited you have become in your
self-appreciation. You are right now the son or daughter of God already.
Using your infinite capacity. With great limitation. And you believe
that the limitation is the actuality of you, and it's not. Now are you
the son or daughter of God? Already You see? You dishonor yourself. By
considering yourself in any other way. And you dishonor the visibility
and tangibility of the holy Son or daughter of God that you are when you
look at your body and say, I am seeing an illusion. Honor it by saying,
If there's imperfection here that I'm experiencing, I'm having a
misperception. Of The visibility and tangibility of The Son of God that
I am. And It's not the truth. And I want to know the truth. Father,
Reveal it to me. I want to experience. The divine body. That I'm looking
at and seeing through a glass darkly. To be illuminated to me. You see,
You're not working towards some future. Conclusion You are uncovering.
The present reality. The present reality Being covered by the three
postulates, one, God is all. Is all 2 you are the holy Son. Or daughter
of God. And number 3, the world and universe are the kingdom of heaven.
If anything else is being experienced, it's because these three
actualities are being viewed through a glass darkly. Through mutually
agreed upon definitions that don't embrace those three postulates. Oh,
it's, it's, it's, it says, it's ancient. It's an ancient idea, ashes to
ashes and dust to dust. Huh. And God created the heavens and the earth.
And then a mist went up from the ground. And then Creation is engaged in
all over again. Created from the dust. What is that? Not the movement of
God. Not the movement of creation. The mist going up from the ground. Is
that which obscures creation as it was already. Complete it if you, if I
may put it that way. And what replaced it was the mutual definitions
that mankind came to through the use of imagination and the intent to
separate from the Father and be the determiner of what is real himself.
You see? Now that was Insanity because that can't actually occur.
Therefore, it never did actually occur. But oh boy, A little bit of the
dream slipped in. Ashes to ashes and dust to dust. And it stuck. And so
it's very hard. Do not abandon Such an ancient habit. And be willing to
look at Any part of creation, whether it, as I said, it's a table or a
flower or a body or a kidney. And recognize. That its substance is
spirit. And that the substance of spirit is love. And the characteristic
of love is illumination. And that therefore You will find that every
aspect of creation is Illuminated. And spreads its illumination on every
other aspect of creation. Expressing the glory of God. Now, This week
I'm going to suggest That you actually Look at this uh dust body. Or
whatever you want to call it. And declare Just for your own clarity. And
declare There's only one substance. The substance of capital Spirit. God
And it must Represent And express what is true about God. Which is
perfection. Beauty Harmony symmetry. And then ask. For that to be
illuminated. To you With the expectation of Whatever is calling for
correction. To be corrected, So that no blemish remains. No misshapen
fingers or arms or any other part of the body remains. Unreplaced by
once again balance harmony symmetry, beauty. You know what though? In
order to have the experience. You're going to have to let it be provided
to you. Because there's no way you will be able to take credit for the
healing. Because you don't exist in your own right independent of the
Father. And the only way to get to the proof that God is all and that
you're the holy Son and or daughter of God and that the world and
universe is the kingdom of heaven is by abandoning that stance of
independent. Agent Or cause That's when the proof of the postulates
occurs, and the postulates cease to be postulates. But eternal facts.
that are the basis of your sound mind. That is no longer confused. You
know what? If you think that everything you see is illusion. As I've
said before, you will not be looking. In the place where redemption is
going to occur. What a shame. You see? You'd better, you had better be
looking. At the very thing you're having a misperception of. So that as
the misperception is replaced, You'll be able to see that particular
aspect of creation in its spiritual original. Again, whether it's a
toenail. Or a fingernail or an eyelash. You see? Every aspect of
creation, every eyelash. Every toenail and so on is a divine idea in the
mind of God. Its substance. Is God Himself. Because God is all And God
could know could go nowhere else to find the materials with which To
create. So, start looking at your world, start looking at your body.
Start apprehending yourself. On the basis Mm. That neither you nor any
aspect of creation. Is behind the point of perfection nor advancing
toward it. But he's at that point. And must be understood experienced.
Allowed to register with you from there. You are looking Had gone You
are experiencing God. And that which is experiencing God. Is the
presence of God. Call the holy Son or daughter of God. And so you are
God recognizing Himself. And that is your function as co-creator. And
all of this Happens in the only place there is for it to happen. The
kingdom of heaven creation itself. You're already home. Just stop
calling home something it is not. And determining that because it is not
what it is. There's no redemption for it. And then look forward to. Your
redemption. Sometime Somewhere And then Be insane enough to Feel
comforted by that. And patiently wait. For that Day to come. And all the
time you wait. Missing out on what is to come. It will be going on all
around you. Because there really is nothing else to experience. Again,
God is already all. And you are all ready. His holy son or daughter And
the world and universe is already the kingdom of heaven. Everything is
already the ultimate. Including you. Oh, you see, but I can't see that,
so therefore it can't be true about me, and there you set your feet in
concrete. Now are you the son or daughter of God? And Those who have the
hope in them. Of recognizing the Christ because He will be like the
Christ. In the course of Going through his day, your day. Will purify
yourself even as you already are pure. I cannot put it any more simply
than that. The ultimate is simple. And this clarity. We'll give you the
courage. And the willingness to anticipate with joy. Your awakening I
love you very much. And I truly look forward to being with you next
time.

