---
 title: Dreaming from Home
 audiofn: Dreaming_from_Home
---

## {{page.title}}

How many of you have had The experience of being asleep and dreaming.
And having someone come in and touch you on the shoulder or shake you
gently and Experience that as an element of your dream. Where someone in
your dream. took you by the shoulder and shook it. In other words, if
you've had that experience, Something happening outside of the dream. is
experienced. But is immediately translated into the dream itself, which
Keeps you from Recognizing keeps you from recognizing the option. To
have a shift of consciousness. From the dream. To real life. The reason
I'm using this example is That I am speaking to you. From the conscious
experience of reality, I am speaking to you from reality. And the fact
is that every single one of you is right here with me in the middle of
reality, dreaming a dream, but hearing me from the kingdom of heaven
yourselves. That doesn't mean you're someplace other than Where you're
experiencing yourself at the moment. What it means is That what you're
experiencing at the moment and calling Planet Earth And certain weather
conditions. Is the kingdom of heaven perceived that way? You're already
at home. You're having your dream from home. There isn't any place to
go. There's just the constant opportunity. To Get the point to have the
flash of insight. That says This voice I'm hearing, the shake on the
shoulder. is coming from a different level of perception. Than the one
I'm currently employing. So that then you can rouse yourself. And greet
reality right where you are and see it for what it is. Again I'm
speaking from home. You're hearing me from home. And this reminder is a
trigger to you. To stop assuming That the way you're perceiving
everything at the moment is true. Reliable Dependable Period. There's
more to it. And in hearing my voice, You are hearing an event. That is
real with a capital R and is occurring independent of and separate from
The definitions of everything that you are currently giving everything
and You are hearing my voice from a place outside the dream. You are
hearing my voice from a place outside of your mutually agreed upon
definitions of everything. You might say you have real ears. And your
real ears are hearing my voice. And even though the experience is being
translated into the current terms of your perceptions of the kingdom of
heaven, It isn't changing the fact that the divine you is hearing my
voice from a home, and my voice is being extended to you from home, and
there's no Further To go All that needs to happen is a moment. In which
you relinquish your commitment to the way you're seeing everything. When
you're sleeping and having a dream. And it's time to wake up. The alarm
clock goes off or someone shakes your shoulder. It's time to make a
commitment to something other than what's attracting your attention, the
dream you're having, so that you might step. For lack of better words
into a different order of reality. The chair you're sitting in, the bed
you're lying on. The room you're in All of it is some aspect of the
kingdom of heaven and you. are in the middle of it. Preoccupied though
you may be. But this event of our being together and your hearing my
voice and my recognizing you is absolutely, totally divine and real with
a capital R. And what is real about you is what is hearing what is real
about me. And To some degree. This mutual experience of communion. Is
everyone's, including mine, everyone's experience of the presence of God
being all there is to everything. So reality isn't afar off. It's
happening at this instant, and it is what you are experiencing no matter
how it's being interpreted. And awakening is simply a matter of
abandoning the interpretation so that it doesn't get in the way of the
clear experience of what is real.

