---
 title: Ego costume and Coming Out
 audiofn: Ego_costume_and_Coming_Out
---

## {{page.title}}

The ego It is like a garment everyone puts on. It might More clearly be
described as a Halloween costume. Today I'm going to be a terrorist.
Well, I'm going to be a princess. Well, I'm going to be the good guy.
Oh, well, I'm going to be the responsible businessman. Oh, I'm going to
be the, the best darned mother in the world. If I have to die doing it.
The ego is a sense of self that each one of you adopts and embodies.
It's a costume. That covers up You And creates a certain presentation to
the world. Now When I say you need to witness to the best in your
brothers and sisters, and that you're to call on God for the inner
experience of what the truth is of them. I am talking about having
revealed to you what is underneath the costume that all of you are
wearing. And mind you, when you're wearing the costume, you attempt to
behave in the manner that the costume suggests. So obviously then your
behavior doesn't represent the you that's underneath the costume either.
The simple fact is that without the costume you're all very humble. Mm
there's a very few of you look so beautiful that you act with arrogance
when you're naked. So The ego in order to be validated. Must become
attached to or identified with the wearer of the costume. You have to
personalize it. It has to become attached to a person. It has to become
identified as the person wearing it, otherwise. It's just a costume. So
If you want to heal someone. In order for healing to occur, The costume
must be impersonalized. In other words, the costume must be separated
from the wearer of it so that you are not confused about the
individuality. Who's wearing the costume for whatever reason he or she
may be wearing the costume. The wearer of the costume is not the one
portrayed by the costume being worn. To be willing to see the very best
in another. By being willing to let God provide the vision as to what is
true about them. is what Renders the costume a costume only rather than
the identity of the one wearing the costume. And that's what allows for
healing to take place. But as long as you say he is responsible Or she
is responsible. And the costume is not separated from the individuality.
You are caught by the illusion, and the illusion can't evaporate. The
illusion cannot be. Rendered No Void meaningless. And therefore not
something under which you must suffer. This is very important. When
something happens in a relationship. Or with somebody you know. Or even
with yourself, the first thing you must do. is to impersonalize the ego.
Because the costume is distinctly separate from and different from the
one wearing it. And the one wearing it. is whoever he or she was before
she ever put on the costume. Before he or she ever adopted an ego sense
of himself or herself. And what he or she was before the costume was
adopted. And who he or she still truly is underneath the costume is the
presence of God. And nothing less. Be more conscientious. In the way you
give attention. To your day and the events in the day and the people you
encounter in your day. Because it doesn't matter what the individual's
name is, that one is the Christ. And you are the Christ. And your
Christhood lies in a place of excellence that is right in the middle of
each one of you. Which you tend not to connect with because you're so
busy defending yourself against the threats in your life and in your
world. But you know what, you're not going to have a transformed vision
or experience of your world. Until you abandon the self-protection
you're engaged in. And you go to that place of excellence in you.
Knowing that from there you're going to have a different point of view.
You're going to be looking at everything differently. And then dare to
go ahead and look at everything differently. It's not going to change
until you start doing this. And I'll tell you, you're way past the time
of saying I'll let them do it first. When you're here with me. Or when
you're with me in the withinness of yourself. You will find that Our
camaraderie. Our communion will always be directed toward The changes
you need to make. In order to Manage To free yourself from your
fixation. On how you think things are. Because you're in the middle of
the kingdom of heaven, you're in the middle of reality, perfect,
flawless, harmonious. Beautiful. Unconflicted being. You're in that it
is you right now. And not to be experiencing it is ridiculous. There's
just no reason for further delay. Or further laziness. Because even if
you're experiencing a comfortable misery, it's not your birthright. And
besides, it's like all of us who are awake are hollering at you and you,
you have yourself sitting in a little tiny closet. Inside your father's
mansion. And we're all saying, come on out and play, come on out and
play, and you say, I'm busy, I'm busy, I'm busy. I've got to keep
defending myself because everything is so terrible. And you've been
doing this Maybe for lifetimes. And you don't realize that the fact that
you're hearing a voice that says come on out and play, come join us in
reality, come join us in Unwalled, unblocked in fullness. The fact that
you're hearing that voice is demonstrating to you that there is another
place beside your closet. You don't realize that that's A miracle You
don't realize that hearing this voice saying, Join me, come on out is
The second coming Oh, well, if it was a 2nd coming, that would get your
attention. And I'm telling you this is the second coming. It's the 2nd
coming out. It's the 2nd coming out party. I had mine. Now it's your
turn. Something Immeasurably significant is happening when I say join
me, reach out to me. Don't keep yourself locked in to your sense of
timeliness. Because I am here and all of the brotherhood who is awake is
here with you. And because you're hearing my voice. Because you're
hearing my intent to connect with you. You have significantly abandoned
your commitment to being ignorant. The fact that you are hearing me is
earth shaking. Something stupendous. is occurring In the fact that you
are hearing my voice. That you are hearing my intent to love you and
embrace you and That I am inviting you to join me consciously. Because
In reaching out to me. You're reaching out of the closet. Into territory
that's always been present and available to you to experience. You've
always thought that this would happen. After you die. Or somewhere off
in the future. But your closet has been right in the middle of the
kingdom of heaven all along. In the present, In every moment of
conscious experience you're having. You're having this moment of
conscious experience in the middle of reality. As an individuality who
is real. Divinely real, my equal. My brother, my sister. So you've been
being in the kingdom of heaven. For God knows how long. Saying I'm not
in the middle of the kingdom of heaven. I'm not the Christ. I'm not the
direct expression of God. I'm not the presence of God expressing
Himself. I am what I think I am. I think I'm just a hunk of matter. A
hunk of meat. With a piece of meat in my skull that somehow thinks. And,
and the, the mind in that piece of meat in my skull, um, is called an
ego. And this ego that I am. Lives on a huge hunk of matter floating in
physical space. And because I'm a descendant of The animals I'm
basically ferocious. And I basically survive at the expense of
Everything else And that's the way it's always been, and that's the way
it always will be. And that very finite. Mm, uncomplementary definition
of yourself and life is all that constitutes the closet. That you're
sitting inside of. Right in the middle of the kingdom of heaven. You are
all the direct expression of God at this very instant. You are the
Christ at this very instant, my equal, my brother, my sister. Refusing
to accept that as the truth. And remaining committed with all your
might. To a different interpretation of things, your interpretation, the
one you get a whole lot of satisfaction out of having created for
yourself. Instead of just accepting God's truth. The divine truth about
yourself. And so you are missing out on so much you couldn't believe it.
And the way you get out of this closet. is not by battling The demons in
your mind that fill your closet that you have filled your closet with,
but by abandoning the self-protection against your foes and enemies and
the threats in your Perceived world and opening the door to the closet
and coming out and playing with the rest of us. In the middle of the
kingdom of heaven. Consciously experiencing reality for what it truly
is. If you dare for a moment. To think that I exist. That I really exist
and that I'm available to you. And then you acknowledge or are willing
to believe that I've been exactly where you are. And know exactly how
you're feeling. And that I'm no longer in that place. Then you have A
justification for saying Well, if he did it, I can do it. Not only that,
he did it and he says, That it's now his function. To stand with me as I
do that and help me. Know that I'm with you. I'm just waiting.

