---
 title: ego thought system
 audiofn: ego_thought_system
---

## {{page.title}}

The ego is like Dry water It's a bunch of nothing. But you all talk
about the ego as though it's something. You say What an ego he is. You
define other people by their egohood. You say, boy, my ego is on the
rampage today. And at other times you, you acknowledge that you are an
ego. And yet, the ego is nothing but a thought system, a collection of
ideas. You think of the ego as being willful. And therefore having A
persona Uh That has the capacity to have an original intent. And carry
it out. And yet the fact is that it is nothing but a thought system. A
collection of thoughts. And ideas that you Believe and have committed
yourself to. But again, the ego is nothing but a packet of nothing. And
the only way That it can seem to become something is if you add the real
thing to it. And so what is the only real thing you can add to an idea?
Of An ego as a thing. It is the Christ that you are. It is what you
really are. You have developed. Beliefs And you have made commitment to
them. So now you believe them. You are the Christ pretending not to be
the Christ and believing. Your belief All there is to your ego is a
bunch of nothing constituted of ideas not gathered from God but from the
imagination. In other words, created out of nothing. And the result of
that creation is still a bunch of nothing, but with a bunch of
complicated definitions that seem to have substance. And the only thing
that makes the ego seem to be able to act with purpose is that your
capacity. To be the expression of purpose which is real, has to be added
to it. And then you have to consciously choose to ignore that you've
added something real to it so that you can think that the nothing that
you made out of nothing. has become something. All there is to it is a
Christ. Imagining that he or she Has a capacity to conceive of himself
or herself as something separate from what God is being. And Then
Borrowing from the truth or the reality of himself or herself. That
which is real. And adding it to the infrastructure of nothing. causing
it To seem to be Something capable of conscious intent, of conscious
will that can act. That can make that can wish. And thus be a life
force, if you will. So again, any ego you think you are or any ego you
think you see is nothing but the divine one that God has created.
Pretending not to be the presence of God. Believing that he or she is
not the presence of God. And then Consciously rejecting his or her
Source And abiding in this imagination, this System of thoughts. Once
you understand this, You will see that the ego is nothing to deal with.
It doesn't really exist. And that the solution to the problem of being
an ego. is To once again consciously remember your source. Consciously
remember. The only real author there is. And abandon any authority you
thought you had. So that you begin to realize that whatever is
Experienceable is real by virtue of the Father's will. And what you
thought it was. is really nonexistent. In doing this You remember God is
your Father, which makes you His Son. Which makes you real. And in your
acknowledgement of what you truly are, in your remembering what you
truly are. The father and the son become one. As a conscious experience.
And you wake up Therefore, The solution lies in. Remembering That right
now in the middle of your dream. You are a divine one creating an
illusion. And believing it And the only thing that is necessary in order
to wake up is not to challenge the ego that you seem to have created.
But to remember who you are. And throw your allegiance on that side.


