---
 title: Ego costume and Coming Out
 audiofn: Ego_costume_and_Coming_Out
---

## {{page.title}}

The ego, it is like a garment everyone puts on. It might more clearly be described as a Halloween costume. Today I’m going to be a terrorist. Well, I’m going to be a princess. Well, I’m going to be the good guy. Oh, well, I’m going to be the responsible businessman. Oh, I’m going to be the, the best darned mother in the world if I have to die doing it. The ego is a sense of self that each one of you adopts and embodies. It’s a costume that covers up you and creates a certain presentation to the world.

Now when I say you need to witness to the best in your Brothers and Sisters, and that you’re to call on God for the inner experience of what the truth is of them I am talking about having revealed to you what is underneath the costume that all of you are wearing. And mind you, when you’re wearing the costume, you attempt to behave in the manner that the costume suggests. So obviously then your behavior doesn’t represent the you that’s underneath the costume either. The simple fact is that without the costume you’re all very humble. Mm there’s a very few of you look so beautiful that you act with arrogance when you’re naked.

So the ego in order to be validated must become attached to or identified with the wearer of the costume. You have to personalize it. It has to become attached to a person. It has to become identified as the person wearing it, otherwise it’s just a costume. So If you want to heal someone in order for healing to occur the costume must be impersonalized. In other words, the costume must be separated from the wearer of it so that you are not confused about the individuality who’s wearing the costume for whatever reason he or she may be wearing the costume.

The wearer of the costume is not the one portrayed by the costume being worn. To be willing to see the very best in another by being willing to let God provide the vision as to what is true about them is what renders the costume a costume only, rather than the identity of the one wearing the costume. And that’s what allows for healing to take place. But as long as you say he is responsible or she is responsible and the costume is not separated from the individuality you are caught by the illusion, and the illusion can’t evaporate. The illusion cannot be rendered null, void, meaningless. And therefore not something under which you must suffer.

This is very important. When something happens in a relationship or with somebody you know or even with yourself, the first thing you must do is to impersonalize the ego. Because the costume is distinctly separate from and different from the one wearing it. And the one wearing it is whoever he or she was before she ever put on the costume, before he or she ever adopted an ego sense of himself or herself and what he or she was before the costume was adopted. And who he or she still truly is underneath the costume is the Presence of God and nothing less.

Be more conscientious in the way you give attention to your day and the events in the day and the people you encounter in your day. Because it doesn’t matter what the individual’s name is, that one is the Christ. And you are the Christ. And your Christhood lies in a place of excellence that is right in the middle of each one of you which you tend not to connect with because you’re so busy defending yourself against the threats in your life and in your world.

But you know what, you’re not going to have a transformed vision or experience of your world until you abandon the self-protection you’re engaged in. And you go to that place of excellence in you knowing that from there you’re going to have a different point of view. You’re going to be looking at everything differently. And then dare to go ahead and look at everything differently. It’s not going to change until you start doing this and I’ll tell you, you’re way past the time of saying I’ll let them do it first.

When you’re here with me or when you’re with me in the withinness of yourself you will find that our camaraderie, our communion will always be directed toward the changes you need to make in order to manage to free yourself from your fixation on how you think things are. Because you’re in the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven, you’re in the middle of Reality, perfect, flawless, harmonious, beautiful, unconflicted Being. You’re in that it is you right now. And not to be experiencing it is ridiculous.

There’s just no reason for further delay or further laziness. Because even if you’re experiencing a comfortable misery, it’s not your birthright. And besides, it’s like all of us who are awake are hollering at you and you, you have yourself sitting in a little tiny closet inside your Father’s mansion. And we’re all saying, “come on out and play, come on out and play.” And you say, “I’m busy, I’m busy, I’m busy. I’ve got to keep defending myself because everything is so terrible.” And you’ve been doing this maybe for lifetimes. And you don’t realize that the fact that you’re hearing a voice that says “come on out and play, come join us in reality, come join us in unwalled, unblocked in fullness.“

The fact that you’re hearing that voice is demonstrating to you that there is another place beside your closet. You don’t realize that that’s a miracle. You don’t realize that hearing this voice saying, “join me, come on out” is the Second Coming. Oh, well, if it was a Second Coming, that would get your attention. And I’m telling you this is the Second Coming. It’s the Second Coming out, it’s the Second Coming out party. I had mine. Now it’s your turn.

Something immeasurably significant is happening when I say “join me, reach out to me.” Don’t keep yourself locked in to your sense of tinyness. Because I am here and all of the Brotherhood who is awake is here with you. And because you’re hearing my voice, because you’re hearing my intent to connect with you, you have significantly abandoned your commitment to being ignorant. The fact that you are hearing me is earth shaking.

Something stupendous is occurring in the fact that you are hearing my voice, that you are hearing my intent to Love you and embrace you and that I am inviting you to join me consciously. Because in reaching out to me you’re reaching out of the closet into territory that’s always been present and available to you to experience.

You’ve always thought that this would happen after you die. Or somewhere off in the future. But your closet has been right in the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven all along in the present, in every moment of conscious experience you’re having. You’re having this moment of conscious experience in the middle of reality as an individuality who is Real, Divinely Real my equal my Brother, my Sister.

So you’ve been being in the Kingdom of Heaven for God knows how long saying “I’m not in the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven. I’m not the Christ. I’m not the direct expression of God. I’m not the Presence of God expressing Himself. I am what I think I am. I think I’m just a hunk of matter. A hunk of meat with a piece of meat in my skull that somehow thinks. And, and the, the mind in that piece of meat in my skull um, is called an ego. And this ego that I am lives on a huge hunk of matter floating in physical space. And because I’m a descendant of the animals I’m basically ferocious. And I basically survive at the expense of everything else. And that’s the way it’s always been, and that’s the way it always will be.”

And that very finite Mm, uncomplementary definition of yourself and life is all that constitutes the closet that you’re sitting inside of right in the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven. You are all the direct expression of God at this very instant. You are the Christ at this very instant, my equal, my Brother, my Sister refusing to accept that as the truth. And remaining committed with all your might to a different interpretation of things, your interpretation, the one you get a whole lot of satisfaction out of having created for yourself instead of just accepting God’s truth, the Divine truth about yourself.

And so you are missing out on so much you couldn’t believe it. And the way you get out of this closet is not by battling the demons in your mind that fill your closet that you have filled your closet with, but by abandoning the self-protection against your foes and enemies and the threats in your perceived world and opening the door to the closet and coming out and playing with the rest of us in the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven consciously experiencing reality for what it truly is.

If you dare for a moment to think that I exist, that I really exist and that I’m available to you. And then you acknowledge or are willing to believe that I’ve been exactly where you are and know exactly how you’re feeling and that I’m no longer in that place. Then you have a justification for saying “Well, if he did it, I can do it. Not only that, he did it and he says that it’s now his function to stand with me as I do that and help me.“ Know that I’m with you. I’m just waiting.
