---
 title: Ego costume
 audiofn: Ego_costume
---

## {{page.title}}

The ego It is like a garment everyone puts on. It might More clearly be
described as a Halloween costume. Today I'm going to be a terrorist.
Well, I'm going to be a princess. Well, I'm going to be the good guy.
Oh, well, I'm going to be the responsible businessman. Oh, I'm going to
be the, the best darned mother in the world. If I have to die doing it.
The ego is a sense of self that each one of you adopts and embodies.
It's a costume. That covers up You And creates a certain presentation to
the world. Now When I say you need to witness to the best in your
brothers and sisters, and that you're to call on God for the inner
experience of what the truth is of them. I am talking about having
revealed to you what is underneath the costume that all of you are
wearing. And mind you, when you're wearing the costume, you attempt to
behave in the manner that the costume suggests. So obviously then your
behavior doesn't represent the you that's underneath the costume either.
The simple fact is that without the costume you're all very humble. Mm,
very few of you look so beautiful that you act with arrogance when
you're naked. So The ego in order to be validated. Must become attached
to or identified with the wearer of the costume. You have to personalize
it. It has to become attached to a person. It has to become identified
as the person wearing it, otherwise. It's just a costume. So If you want
to heal someone. In order for healing to occur, The costume must be
impersonalized. In other words, the costume must be separated from the
wearer of it so that you are not confused about the individuality. Who's
wearing the costume for whatever reason he or she may be wearing the
costume. The wearer of the costume is not the one portrayed by the
costume being worn. To be willing to see the very best in another. By
being willing to let God provide the vision as to what is true about
them. is what Renders the costume a costume only rather than the
identity of the one wearing the costume. And that's what allows for
healing to take place. But as long as you say he is responsible Or she
is responsible. And the costume is not separated from the individuality.
You are caught by the illusion, and the illusion can't evaporate. The
illusion cannot be. Rendered No Void meaningless. And therefore not
something under which you must suffer. This is very important. When
something happens in a relationship. Or with somebody you know. Or even
with yourself, the first thing you must do. is to impersonalize the ego.
Because the costume is distinctly separate from and different from the
one wearing it. And the one wearing it. is whoever he or she was before
she ever put on the costume. Before he or she ever adopted an ego sense
of himself or herself. And what he or she was before the costume was
adopted. And who he or she still truly is underneath the costume is the
presence of God. And nothing less.

