---
 title: Embodying Love
 audiofn: Embodying_Love
---

## {{page.title}}

When you think of the word defense. You naturally think of it as defense
against something. But You can stand in defense of truth. You can stand
in defense of Love When the temptation comes for you to become reactive
and angry. Or jealous or hateful or whatever. You can stand in defense
of love. And choose for it and engage with it and let it fill you. With
enriched affection. That you are able to express. Instead of becoming
the mouthpiece for the ego. You see, So atonement. stands in defense of
What's real. It does not stand defended against what is unreal. And
because it stands in defense of what is real, It doesn't occasion
conflict. If you stand in defense against what is unreal. You will have
conflict. If your prayer is, Thy will be done. Let the reign of divine
truth, divine life, and divine love be established in me. What are you
doing? You are standing in defense. A divine truth, life and love. And
you are standing in defense of Your capacity To experience and to honor
it and nothing else. Let it be established in me. Of course it's already
established in you. Because you're nothing less than God expressed, and
all that God is is already established in you right at this moment. But
your prayer is acknowledging that and saying let it be established in
me. It's like let it be established in me to me. So that I'm more fully
aware of it than I have been. Let it be established in me. And rule out
of me. My inclination to use self will, my inclination to think, my
inclination to reason, my inclination to become angry, my inclination to
interpret everything according to my present sense of things regardless
of what God is being there, you see. Let it be established in me and
rule out of me all self will. Why? So that my affections might be
enriched. And therefore be transformational. Rather than my willy-nilly
running down my habitual road of reaction. And willful mess. And the
right I think I have to interpret everything the way I want to interpret
it. So atonement It is not a defense against something. It stands in
defense of reality. It's a choice each of you has to consciously make.
And then Act out You have to let it take form in action. Which is
affection. Again, no matter how loving, how truly connected with the
Father you might be. So that you are perceiving truly about everything.
And everyone If you cannot engage face to face with a brother with
affection. There is no atonement. So Now you know where it's at. And
because you do, Your participation in the atonement. It will be easier
for you. Because you won't sit in a room by yourself, being the presence
of love, thinking that's all there is to it and neglecting. To bring it
into your actions. Once you begin to bring it into your actions and Your
desire is to acted out more and more consistently. The world is going to
see more evidence of atonement. What is needed for transformation? is
present. And the means of Embodying it Good choice of words. The means
of embodying it are present. Right there embody body body two together.
Expressing affection, embodiment, and I'm not talking about sex. Body
embodiment, body. Body, it's not an illusion. Love it, use it. Body,
affection, not a slap, but a caress, caring. Take the time to mean it.
Acts of love. Acts of getting close enough. Defenselessly enough. That
hearts can touch. Because the goal is For hearts to touch. The words
here don't mean anything. Until you catch the spirit of them. And extend
them to each other. Now if you don't like what you see going on in the
world, Then stop doing it in your individual experience. Because that
you can do something about. And the acts of affection that you engage
in. will become the leaven that leavens the whole lump. Again Affection
is An act of love. An act of love. is an embodiment of love. And you
will have to use your bodies. And not just your mind. Let your bodies
become. The brush That paints loveliness. Upon your relationships. Let
your bodies be the brushes that Paint healing In your relationships. And
remember That if your bodies are not Being used You will not have the
concrete evidence of atonement. No matter how blissed out you are all
alone in your room being the presence of love.

