---
 title: Embody integrity
 audiofn: Embody_integrity
---

## {{page.title}}

Integrity Finds expression. In a commitment to something. Ah Not being
vague. Indistinct. There's going to be no value whatsoever to to begin
to Be involved with your brother. More than you ever have before. If in
the involvement you don't bring. A devotion to that which will heal. If
your motive isn't. To honor the best in you. That which is divine in
you, together with the best or the divinity of your brother. Then your
involvement. will be Nothing other than conflict. Nothing other than a
battle of the will. Or wills And You might as well go ahead and shoot
yourself. At least you learn one thing. Life is unyielding. You would
learn that. And that would be humbling. How much do you love your
brother? How much are you willing to love your brother? Are you willing
to stand with him on behalf of his integrity? In the face of opposition.
In the face of Potential reaction, potential retaliation. Or are you
going to be vague? I'll think about it. And The opportunity passes you
by. The call unanswered. Passes you by. Being intimate is not something
you can do from a distance. And love is intimate. And if your brother is
hurting, And healing is needed, you walk into the hurting place with
them. And you voice. Integrity about yourself and them. And you voice
truth about yourself and them. And you walk out of the hurt together.
You care about your brother enough to witness for what is true. And you
do whatever you have to do to embody it. Be willing to be the embodiment
of it in deeds. When you don't speak up. You're saying yes to the
absence of integrity being embodied. And the more people who don't speak
up, the more on your planet will be demoralized. You are teaching
something by your silence. And you are contributing to a state of being
on your planet. Where nobody dares to speak up. And love disappears. And
the healing. That is the natural outcome of love disappears. And you
find yourself. Pushed down so far. In demoralization. That the idea that
there is a God is inconceivable to you. And the idea that there is
Divinity Associated with you becomes Unreasonable. And unthinkable and
unrememberable. And your Definition of yourself becomes worse and worse
and worse. You are your brother's keeper. You will not get into the
kingdom of heaven by yourself. Because separateness and isolation and
independence is the very thing that is keeping you from experiencing
your birthright and the kingdom of heaven right now. The only way you're
going to get out of. The human condition. The ongoing conflict, the
ongoing tension, the ever present call for survival techniques. is to
stop behaving in a way that causes other people to feel they need to be
defended against you in order to survive. and become an agent for
change. By Letting that shield down. And embodying. Love By witnessing
for the excellence in everyone. And inspiring the feeling of safety. So
that they might let in the love. And find themselves filled with love
that they can pass on to others. What I I am telling you that you are
going to have to do sooner or later. But which I am inviting you to do
rather than commanding you to do. is to stop repeating. This habit Of
uninvolvement It will change. The world Into the kingdom of heaven. By
revealing that what you thought the world was. It was not what it was.
That it always has been the kingdom of heaven. And you always have been.
The beloved expression of God. And it's your birthright to be
experiencing that rather than the Awful misery that you're experiencing
instead, no matter how good it is, it's still awful by comparison with
what it's your birthright to be experiencing. And so I invite you. To
stop being uninvolved.

