---
 title: Enriching affection
 audiofn: Enriching_affection
---

## {{page.title}}

The atonement principle is love. And atonement is an act of love. And
act Not a thought, but an act. So, affection. I love acted out, you
might say. And there's no way to act out love. When you are in
isolation. And There is no way to Engage in an act of love in your mind.
In your mind you are being love. Do you see the difference? Again,
atonement. is meaningless without involvement. One on 11 to another.
Back and forth. In acts of affection. Thy will be done. Let the reign of
divine truth, life, and love. Be established in me. And rule out of me
all self will. And May thy word. Enrich the affections of all mankind
and govern them. So the first part of that statement. says it's an
invitation. that each one of you can make. An invitation you might say.
To let the atonement principle in. That the rain A divine truth, life
and love, not the ego's sense of life, truth and love, be established in
me and rule out of me all self-will, all that is the ego. But in a way
that would be selfish only to consider yourself. To make it whole. The
last part needs to be added. And may thy word. Enrich the affections of
everyone else, of all mankind and govern them. So what we're doing here
is going through a process of enriching our affections. So that in so
doing, you are in a position to bless all mankind. I will keep saying it
over and over and over as long as it takes for you to really grasp the
fact. That none of what we're talking about is a head trip. It's not
intellectual. It's got to be translated into actions. One to another.
Yes, in the privacy of your room. You can be the presence of love that
blesses others. But if when you're with others, you haven't learned how
to be the presence of love, it won't mean diddly shit. It's very easy
when you're in the privacy of your room and you're not confronted with a
brother. And whatever his behavior might be at the moment. To listen.
For the voice for truth within. To learn what is true about your
brother. And hold him or her in that esteem. But it's when you're face
to face with your brother or your sister. That the call For being the
presence of love. In terms of your behavior. comes into play. And that's
where the world changes, you see. So let's not get so lofty and
spiritual and metaphysical and intellectual. That we forget where all of
this is at. Where it is. That the transformation will occur. It's in the
willingness to have your vision transformed right while your brother or
sister is in your face. So that you can behave. Expressing real acts of
love. That affection. is embodied And that's Where you see the effect of
the miracle.

