---
 title: Escaping definitions of self
 audiofn: Escaping_definitions_of_self
---

## {{page.title}}

The hardest thing you're going to be faced with in the near future. is
giving up. Your definition of yourself. Your idea Of what you are and
who you are. You developed a picture of yourself. And you let these
things become definitions of yourself. A lot of them you created all by
yourself, and a lot of them you let be created by others around you. And
in the process, You abandoned. Your state of innocence. Your capacity to
just be the presence of consciousness. The presence of the capacity to
be aware. And the experience of being aware with curiosity. As each of
you provided further and further definition to yourself, you ceased
being curious. About who you were. And you thereby abandoned the ever
present threshold of newness. And innocence And sometimes when life
forces you to look outside of the box you have created for yourself. The
picture of yourself that you are devoted to. You feel threatened. And
you feel afraid. When if you were still in your state of innocent
curiosity, You would Embrace, examine, explore. Try out, experiment
with. The newness that you were being invited to explore. Your greatest
problem. Yes That you think you are what you think you are. But you are
not responsible for your existence. The realization of this and the
conscious embrace of it. Brings a perspective. Into your life Into your
conscious experience. That literally allows you the means of escaping
the definitions. That you've given yourselves. You think you are doing
things. You are the author. You are the authority. You're dreaming a
dream. You are existing. In a state of partial consciousness. Because
you didn't provide yourself the capacity to be conscious or to have a
conscious experience of any kind. You've got to remember that something
else is being you right now. And the biggest problem you're going to
have is learning to be attentive to this beingness that is being you. So
that you can begin to draw your definition of yourself from it. Rather
than your intellect. or other people's opinions. There is something
responsible. For your existence. This something you call God. There's a
partnership that exists, a relationship that exists between you and that
which is responsible for your existing. Again, the most difficult thing
you're going to be faced with. I yielding up your devotion to your
definition of yourself. Acknowledging that something other than you is
responsible for your existence, for your very existing in this moment.
And Acknowledging this relationship. And then being willing to be open
to the clearer experience of what you are because of what God is being
right where you are. So that you draw your definition from an entirely
new place. Ultimately, what do problems do? Ultimately, they bring you
to a point of realizing you have no power to do anything about them. You
finally get worn down to the point where you give up. And when one
genuinely gives up, You finally have enough humility to say help and
help comes. Why? Because you are more. than you currently think you are.
And what you are is divine. The one element that will help you get
outside the box. is first of all The willingness on your part to
acknowledge that you are divine. You're not responsible for yourself.
You are not responsible for your existing. But something is. And you and
that something are in relationship. And therefore you are divine. And
then the second thing is To dare to acknowledge this about your brother
or your sister. And Let them be an object of your affection. I invite
you. To the experience of joy that it's your birthright to be
experiencing. I invite you to open up. To The realm of Extending love.
Minus A shield around you. And I invite you to begin to abandon. Defense
as the standardized mode of existence. This means that there will have
to be a shift from getting to giving. Stop Using Your divine mind, your
divine capacities. To block the kingdom of heaven from your sight.
Because you have decided that where you are is not the kingdom of
heaven. This unseen. Companion or partner that you have. God This one
who is responsible for your drawing a breath or lifting your little
finger or being conscious. This partner Is your friend This partner is
constantly pouring out a blessing to you. A blessing of existence. That
is Undivided and therefore unconflicted. An existence of joy. And Love
that Can only be experienced by you as utter compassion as you are
abandoning your commitment. To your lousy definition of yourself. And
those of your brothers and sisters who are awake. stand with you.
Enjoyous And compassionate and loving support of you. As you dare. To
shift from defense to love. You have mighty companions with you. And you
are more than you think you are at the moment. There is a partner Who is
being viewed. With all the fullness of his being with a capital H. Who
is extending to you? The capacity To experience in vulnerability. Who is
extending A conscious experience of joy because it's the nature of
being. So that the experience of joy isn't dependent upon circumstances.
You are more than you think you are at this moment. And because of that,
Your very experience of being conscious constitutes the threshold of
discovering the more there is to you than you think you are. But you're
going to have to grab hold of it.

