---
 title: Experimenting from a grassy knoll
 audiofn: Experimenting_from_a_grassy_knoll
---

## {{page.title}}

You don't want to dare to look squarely at the fact. That you have
chosen. to look away from Your essential self, your essential being that
you have chosen to dishonor it. By turning your back upon it so that you
might Employ your imagination to imagine things that God never dreamed
of. And would never dream of. You are unwilling to Be honest with
yourself or you are unwilling to Be honest with yourself easily. So that
you might say, yes, I did this really foolish thing. I did this really
impractical thing. I did this thing that I can't really do, and you know
what, I believed that I did it. You don't want to take a look at and
Take responsibility for Having done something unintelligent, why?
Because From your separated Vantage point The only appropriate result of
doing that would be to have a penalty applied to you. And yet It's only
when you are willing to look squarely at the fact that you have done
something. Not something wrong, but that you have done something that
you couldn't actually do, and you believed that you did something you
couldn't actually do. It becomes clear to you that you never actually
accomplished it and therefore you're not guilty of anything and what you
thought happened isn't what happened at all. And what really did happen
while you were having this Distorted experience. Of what was really
happening. is now available for you to see for what it really was, for
its incredible beauty, for its incredible perfection. Because something
real was going on the whole time. That you were bending out of shape so
it looked like something else to you. But it never actually was altered
in any way, and when the misperception and the memory of the
misperception. evaporates because you've been willing to look squarely.
At what you've done. Or what you never could have actually done. Then
You become clear and you are relieved not only of the memory of the
misperception but you are relieved of Being vulnerable to Judgment Guilt
And penalty You think it's dangerous. To own up to what you did. But
it's doubly dangerous. To believe that you actually did it. Do you see
that? No matter how insane you can behave. You cannot override your
fundamental divine sanity with a capital S. It knows slash you know.
That there was a point at which you Sad Father, I'd rather do it myself.
You all know that. You all know that you chose to try and experiment and
to do things on your own, unquote. You can't forget that even though you
might not remember the specifics of it, because now you're now you're
preoccupied with defending yourself against the horrible effect of that
decision, but you know. What you did Because You're still lying on a
grassy knoll in the middle of the kingdom of heaven, never having left.
So you are being finessed. In taking a look at what you did and being
able to say, oh. I did this And It's not the way I was made to be, and
therefore I couldn't actually have succeeded in doing it. Therefore, I
am deluded. So here's a bit of the honesty that's hard to look at but
has to be looked at or correction can't occur. So you recognize even
just intellectually. that you are deluded. If you are deluded, you are
deluded about something. And once you say, OK, I conceive. Of the
possibility that I at this moment might be deluded. In doing that,
you're then put in a position of being able to be curious to say, what
is it I'm deluded about? Ah, the minute you say, what is it? That I'm
deluded about, you're having to step outside of the box of mutually
agreed upon definitions and whether you know it or not, you've asked God
a question. You've reached outside of what you currently believe you
know.

