---
 title: Facets of One Diamond
 audiofn: Facets_of_One_Diamond
---

## {{page.title}}

What if there's only one altar? And the altar you're turning to when you
go within is that one altar. It's sort of like the illustration of the
diamond that I've used in the past where each of you could be considered
facets. Of the diamond If you are looking out from the diamond. You can
see that there are other facets adjoining you. That seemed quite
independent of you. Having a distinct shape of their own and so on. All
capable of refracting the light. But communication is difficult because
you have to bridge the Line separating the facets. And you have to
somehow communicate around. The outer surface of the diamond. But if as
the facet You look toward the interior of the diamond. You find that the
whole diamond. I you And you find that every other facet. Every other
individuality as a facet looking toward the interior finds that. The
whole diamond. is what constitutes them, including you. There's only one
interior. And in that interior. You are all one. Having, you might say,
a little bit of the surface area of the diamond, specifically
identifying you. And In a way, you can extrapolate from this. The
meaning of being specific and universal at the same time. Because you
are all universal and specific simultaneously. So now if you're all
turning toward the same altar. Because there's only one altar. The very
fact that you're turning toward the altar. Means you're turning toward
each other. The very act of turning toward the altar. Means that you are
all moving into the space where you are one. Now I know that after
listening to me for some length of time or any length of time, you know
that turning toward the altar. Is what you are doing when you turn
toward your guide or toward the Holy Spirit or toward the Father. Asking
for guidance. But now you have the added perspective. That all the rest
of you are available to each other, to you. Along with your guide. And
along with the Holy Spirit. And that space, if you will. The interior of
the diamond where the one altar is. is where you're already one. Where
you're already available to each other. To perceive as the Christ that
you are. It's where communion with each other can occur. It doesn't
matter where any individuality is on your globe. It doesn't matter where
any individuality is in the whole of creation. All of those
individualities are available to you. As some aspect of the infinitude
of your being. When you are turning toward the altar, and that's where
real communion can occur. That's where you can see each other as you
are. And connect with each other on that basis. And you will find that
when you connect with each other from there. You will appear to
communicate with each other in the world. So once again, this isn't a
matter of withdrawing from the world and going into some private mental
space where you have A private conversation mentally with your brothers
and sisters. It's going to look like something. Mind Every aspect of
capital M mind. is a conscious experience and is therefore A manifested.
Experience. There is visibility and tangibility to it, and it's called
creation. And so going within to gather from the father his perspective
of your brother. Or sister. So that you might experience a miracle, a
sudden shift of perception. That allows you to love your brother. From
the gifted perspective that you find yourself filled up with. is healing

