---
 title: Fantasy or Miracles
 audiofn: Fantasy_or_Miracles
---

## {{page.title}}

The false needs came after the initiation of the fantasy. Because until
you Formulated this fantasy. You were in complete connection with and
unity with all reality. It wasn't until the fantasy, the bias was
applied. And you stop seeing reality and experiencing your oneness with
it. That a sense of isolation came into the picture. A sense of
aloneness, a sense of tininess in the face of infinity. And it wasn't
until then that fear entered and. A call for defense to protect yourself
against. The humongous oldness of everything that wasn't you any longer.
And so then you began to, um, Practice control of everything you saw. To
keep you safe. Which constituted an even greater denial of reality.
Because now You've not only separated yourself from it. You are seeing
it as your enemy and actively defending yourself against it. When you
twist reality in any way, you are perceiving destructively. You are
perceiving in a way that doesn't work, and you are perceiving in a way
that doesn't allow you to be in harmony with reality. You're perceiving
in a way. That causes you to be defended against what in the final
analysis is all the rest of you. And so You are in a constant state of
self-denial. Destructive. It's not destructive in the sense that
anything can be destroyed. Because what God has created is unalterable.
But it's destructive in the sense that Yet Contributes nothing. To your
being sane. So you must be careful. How you think about your brother.
You have a responsibility. You have a responsibility because what you
think. Has its effect. And you cannot get away from that. So obviously
you have a choice. You can offer fantasy. Or you can offer miracles.
Make the choice. And let that be your Motto every day this next week.
Make the choice. For whether you're going to offer fantasy or miracles.
And if you're going to offer miracles, you're going to have to abandon
your best judgments. Your best reasoning Your best thinking And ask God
what's going on here? What do I need to say? Who is this that I'm
looking at? So that you might experience. Insight and see more clearly
yourself. So that you might offer that vision. And the strength of your
conviction in that vision. Will sustain the belief of the one receiving.
The clarity in your mind. And as I told you before, as long as a single
one of you is not totally awake. Our release, my release, the release of
those who are awake is not complete, and that is why we stand on your
behalf and stand with you and stand ready to be in support of your ever
increasing clarity. Every one of us who is awake is devoted to your
awakening. And when the idea is expressed that those who are awake have
too many wonderful things to do to be occupied with you poor souls,
don't let that sink in. Don't let that register with you and reject it
outright. But there is an emptiness. That we feel Because you don't see
us, you don't recognize our presence. And uh Those who have never heard
what I'm sharing. Experience no hope at having that our presence
confirmed in their lives and don't even reach out. So there is an
emptiness. That we are intent upon filling or illuminating the fullness
of. But it's not with sadness. And there is never any lesser opinion of
you than we have of ourselves. Indeed.

