---
 title: Fantasy
 audiofn: Fantasy
---

## {{page.title}}

Fantasy is a distorted form of vision. In other words, It's a distorted
form of something real. It isn't a separate. Independent phenomenon.
This is important to understand. It's as I've said before. You can't
have a counterfeit of nothing. Fantasy is a distorted form of vision.
And vision is real. Fantasies of any kind are distortions because They
always involve twisting perception into unreality. In other words, they
always involve twisting. The experience of something real in a manner
that causes it to be perceived as different from what it really is.
Therefore, you cannot look at anything. And say This doesn't exist. All
you can say is The way I'm perceiving it. is not valid. And when this is
clear, You will understand why I keep saying to give your attention to
where you are, give your attention to anything you see. With curiosity.
To see more than The bias you have applied to reality causing you to see
what you think you see. Instead of what is really there. The moment you
say this is an illusion, this does not exist. It is logical to assume
that to give any further attention to it is a waste of time. And as a
result, you withdraw your attention. From the very place that vision.
would reveal to you the kingdom of heaven. This is so important to
understand. So that you don't become ungrounded. In your metaphysics uh
so that you don't become ungrounded in your spirituality. So that you
don't become ungrounded in your Miracle readiness. Because if you're
denying the place where the miracle is going to occur for you, You can't
say you're miracle ready. So it's your brother, it's your sister, it's
your husband, your wife, your child, your friend. As I keep saying, the
glass top on the table. The leaf The blossom Each is the threshold. Of
Your abandonment. Of the bias you have given. To the way you're looking
at them. And the opportunity to have vision restored. So that you can
see what's really there.


