---
 title: Father Mother God
 audiofn: Father_Mother_God
---

## {{page.title}}

When you ask, “God What is the truth here?” Or “Father, what is the truth here?” and then you be still and listen, I’m going to suggest that you also from time to time, say “Mother what is your perspective here?” If you say “Father what is the truth here? What is the truth about my fellow man? What is the truth about what is needed here?” You have certain expectations as to what the answer will be that are different from the expectations you would have if you said, “Mother, what is your perspective? What is the truth here? What do I need to know? About my fellow man.“

It will be a good thing to engage in this practice because God is God. Neither Mother nor Father. But embracing all, including all embodying all that the words Father and Mother mean. So when you ask of God, “what is the truth here?” be sure that you are letting all that God is Father and Mother enrich your answers because you’re not holding the answers to a masculine or a feminine only character. This will broaden your experience of what God is and it will broaden your experience of what you are.

At its center, the heart of God and only there you are safe forever. Because you are complete forever and we talk about completeness relative to wholeness relative to healing. And the fact that wholeness meaning total functionality, total perfection embodied is your birthright. And not to be experiencing it is for lack of better words, um a matter of laziness on your part. Because you’re not objecting. And you’re not taking hold of the truth about you.

You’re not taking hold of completeness and expecting to see it because completeness is the fact. If you are going to choose for completion you are going to stop choosing for what? The special relationship. And what is the special relationship? Any relationship you have with anything without the Father’s perspective being any part of your awareness of that relationship.

Which means whether it’s a table or a flower or a fingernail or a chair, if you’re not, seeing it with the Father’s perspective, you are seeing it with a private perspective that you have developed, that you have grown, or that others have developed and grown and taught you about. And it’s a relationship with the definition you have. Rather than a relationship with something that you are experiencing through your Father’s eyes. Which is another way of saying experiencing it through the Holy Spirit which is nothing more than your right mind but is the Father’s perspective your true birthright held in trust while you dally with being independent.

Therefore, again, a special relationship is a relationship with anything that you’re engaging in with total independence. All by yourself. On your own. And which therefore constitutes an unreal or distorted experience. Because you’re not looking at it and experiencing it through your sanity. Through the presence of your Father’s mind which is your mind by virtue of your being your Father’s Son, your Father’s Daughter.

So, when you got your divorce from the Father and you said, “I’d rather see things my way, you suddenly discovered that your infinite perspective was gone. And you were tiny. Not infinite any more. Because you had, in effect, denied that which is infinite about you. “I’d rather do it my way”, and your way is little. It is not infinite. And immediately, when you did that, when you made that decision and you tried to embody it, implement it, two things came into play. The experience of fear and the experience of guilt. They’re inseparable. They go hand in hand. And they go hand in hand with a decision anyone makes to look at things their own way, to deny the Father’s perspective, which is their perspective, because in spite of their attempt to be independent, in spite of their attempt to be an orphan, they are not orphans. They are still the direct expression, the full expression of God.

Anxiety, despair, guilt, and attack. What are they? They are the spontaneous and unavoidable effects of claiming to be an independent agent. And insisting upon giving your full attention only to what you are choosing to think and reason about and come to conclusions about. They are the effect of total selfishness. Mind you, anxiety is uncomfortable, despair is uncomfortable, guilt is uncomfortable, and being the recipient of attack is uncomfortable and engaging in attack is uncomfortable. Uncomfortable for you. That which makes you uncomfortable can easily and correctly be identified as attack.

So, whatever form they take, they are always an attack on who? The one that’s uncomfortable. Who’s uncomfortable? You’re uncomfortable. Why are you uncomfortable? Because you said, “Father, I’d rather pretend I don’t have a Father. Father, I would rather commit my mind to a biased and partial awareness in which you are not present and I am all that is.“

Since the discomfort is a result of that act on your part of independence and you really don’t want to take credit for it you use it to make others guilty. You say, “I live in a conflicted world. I live in a world that isn’t safe. I live in a world where everything is polarized. And expresses good and bad, positive and negative. And the conflict between these positives and negatives are making me miserable. The devil made me do it. I’m uncomfortable because my brother mistreated me. I’m uncomfortable because I’m the victim of an unfair situation or circumstance. “

So, the despair, guilt, and attack, and anxiety that one experiences by virtue of an inner decision to act as though one is an orphan when he isn’t, becomes the justification for blaming another for one’s discomfort. That is not intelligent. That is insane.
