---
 title: Father Mother God
 audiofn: Father_Mother_God
---

## {{page.title}}

When you ask God What is the truth here? Or Father, what is the truth
here? And then you Be still and listen I'm going to suggest that You
also From time to time, say. Mother What is your perspective here? If
you say father What is the truth here? What is the truth about my fellow
man? What is the truth about what is needed here? You have certain
expectations. As to what the answer will be. That are different from the
expectations you would have if you said mother. What is your
perspective? What is the truth here? What do I need to know? About my
fellow man. It will be a good thing to engage in this practice because
God is God. Neither mother nor father. But embracing all, including all
embodying all that the words father and mother. Mean So when you ask of
God, what is the truth here? Be sure that you are letting all that God
is Father and mother. And rich Your answers Because you're not holding
the answers to a masculine or a feminine only. Character This will
broaden your experience of what God is. And it will broaden your
experience of what you are. At its center, the heart of God. And only
there You are safe forever. Because you are complete forever and we talk
about completeness relative to wholeness relative to healing. And the
fact that wholeness, meaning, total functionality, total perfection
embodied is your birthright. And not to be experiencing it. is for lack
of better words, um. A matter of laziness on your part. Because you're
not objecting. And you're not taking hold of the truth about you. You're
not taking hold of completeness and expecting to see it because
completeness is the fact. If you are going to choose for completion. You
are going to stop choosing for what? The special relationship. And what
is the special relationship? Any relationship. You have with anything.
Without the father's perspective being any part of your Awareness Of
that relationship. Which means Whether it's a table or a flower. Or a
fingernail. Or a chair If you're not, Seeing it with the father's
perspective, you are seeing it with a private perspective that you have
developed, that you have grown, or that others have developed and grown
and taught you about. And it's a relationship with the definition you
have. Rather than a relationship with something that you are
experiencing through your father's eyes. Which is another way of saying,
Experiencing it through the Holy Spirit. Which is nothing more than your
right mind but is the father's perspective. Your true birthright held in
trust while you dally with being independent. Therefore, again, a
special relationship is a relationship with anything. That you're
engaging in with total independence. All by yourself. On your own. And
which therefore constitutes an unreal or distorted experience. Because
you're not looking at it and experiencing it through your sanity.
Through the presence of your father's mind. Which is your mind by virtue
of your being your father's son, your father's daughter. So, When you
got your divorce from the father and you said I'd rather see things my
way. You suddenly discovered that your infinite perspective. was gone.
And you were tiny. Not infinite any more. Because you had, in effect,
denied that which is infinite about you. I'd rather do it my way, and
your way is little. It is not infinite. And immediately, When you did
that, when you made that decision. And you tried to embody it, implement
it. Two things came into play. The experience of fear And the experience
of guilt. They're inseparable, they go hand in hand, and they go hand in
hand with a decision anyone makes. To look at things their own way. To
deny the father's perspective, which is their perspective, because in
spite of their attempt to be independent, in spite of their attempt to
be an orphan, they are not orphans. They are still the direct
expression, the full expression of God. Anxiety, despair, guilt, and
attack. What are they? They are the spontaneous and unavoidable effects
of Claiming to be an independent agent. And insisting upon giving your
full attention only to what you are choosing to think and reason about
and come to conclusions about. They are the effect of total selfishness.
Mind you, anxiety is uncomfortable, despair is uncomfortable, guilt is
uncomfortable, and being the recipient of attack is uncomfortable and
engaging in attack is uncomfortable. Uncomfortable for you. That which
makes you uncomfortable. Can easily and correctly be identified as
attack. So, whatever form they take, they are always an attack on who?
The one that's uncomfortable. Who's uncomfortable, you're uncomfortable.
Why are you uncomfortable? Because you said father, I'd rather pretend I
don't have a father. Father, I would rather commit my mind. To A biased
and partial awareness in which you are not present and I am all that is.
Since the discomfort is a result of that act. On your part Of
independence And you really don't want to take credit for it. You use it
To make others guilty. You say I live in a conflicted world. I live in a
world that isn't safe. I live in a world where everything is polarized.
And expresses good and bad, positive and negative. And the conflict
between these positives and negatives are making me miserable. The devil
made me do it. I'm uncomfortable because my brother mistreated me. I'm
uncomfortable because I'm the victim of an unfair situation or
circumstance. So, the despair, guilt, and attack, and anxiety that one
experiences by virtue of An inner decision. To act as though One is an
orphan When he isn't Becomes the justification for blaming another for
one's discomfort. That is. Not intelligent. That is insane.

