---
 title: Fearlessness
 audiofn: Fearlessness
---

## {{page.title}}

If you just pay attention to life, life will present you with the fear
that is your next threshold. To discover is not a valid boundary. You
don't overcome fear fearlessly. You, you overcome fear by not validating
it. And persisting. In spite of it. You persist without energizing it.
When you do something fearlessly, there's no experience of being scared
at all because you are truly fearless, fear is not present. So when you
are not being governed by fear that is being felt. Because you are
inspired. By a connection with love or a connection with truth to move
through it that is courageous. Courage Expressed Because there is divine
inspiration for moving past fear. Provides you with a real experience of
the fact that the fear that you felt held back by was not valid. That
experience. Which is not at all intellectual, but is now a knowing. Puts
you in a new place. Relative to the next boundary that you're going to
move through. That allows you to move through it with less fear even
though fear will still be present. So it doesn't lead to fearless mess.
It leads to a mental clarity, we'll say. That recognizes fear. To be not
only not your ally, but useless. And as that begins to dawn on you
through successive experiences. It helps bring you to a place. Where
fear does not present itself to you. And you meet needs fearlessly. Not
as a result of courage, but because now you are freed up to respond to
needs with love and intelligence. That is not diluted by or undermined
by fear and doubt, you see. The fear is not valid. And is not essential
to your survival. And when fear is no longer seen by you to be valuable
in any way, you will meet every situation, as I said, with more
intelligence, more love, and the ability to be utterly appropriate will
be much easier. And I'm telling you all right now that this experience
of not being confronted by fear is available to you without your having
to wake up too much. This is not a monumental feat to arrive at this
experience. It's not way down the road. In terms of your spiritual
growth. You want to know what the key is? You feel fear when you feel
personally responsible. When you begin to consciously ask for help.
Because you refuse to take personal responsibility and you begin to get
the help. And you establish that habit of joining. And experience the
success of being in this fashion. You will find fear dropping out of the
picture because you found something more useful than fear. Real help.
What will happen is that It is as though your threshold of fear will
become less and less and less. So that it takes something humongous. To
get a little bit of reaction from you. And this is available to all of
you in this world, in this workaday world today. And the key is Not
trying to do everything all by yourself. Not jumping at the chance to
take personal responsibility. But jumping at the chance, jumping at the
opportunity to join with me, with the Holy Spirit, with the Father, so
that you might know how to be utterly appropriate. And the more you do
this and the more you hear answers, the more you experience the influx
of clarity that makes a difference. The more you will begin to trust.
Your relationship with the Father or the Holy Spirit or me. And the less
you will value. The supposed benefit of being Independent And
responsible all by yourself. Community Communion Relationship. And
commitment To them. Is the beginning of the answer is the beginning of
the solution. The breaking of the isolation.

