---
 title: Fear and the body
 audiofn: Fear_and_the_body
---

## {{page.title}}

Your fear preoccupies you. And causes you to refrain. From listening Or
It is overwhelming enough that you expect my response to treat the fear
as though it's real and correct the the supposed cause of the fear
rather than. Doing what will cause you to choose for your peace in spite
of the fear and its apparent cause. If your body could be anesthetized.
And you could still be conscious, you would be incapable of having the
experience of fear. Fear is a body sensation. Mentally, you determine
what is fearful for you. And when those things which Meet the criteria
of your definition occur. Your body tenses up. Anxiety in the pit of
your stomach. You Say that you become afraid then. And You have in
effect. Let your body lead you, tell you what you are feeling. The body
is simply Rendering visible to you. Your current beliefs. If you
recognized that your body was reflecting back to your current beliefs,
you wouldn't say my body isn't cooperating with me today. You might say,
boy, I'm really handling my body poorly, and there's a big difference
there because if you recognize that you're the one handling your body,
then you can handle it in a new way. You're empowered. Because you
haven't lost sight of the source of the authority for what the body is
doing. So, when you believe that your body is generating the experience
of fear because there is something fearful. And you don't realize that
it's a choice you are making that you can make again a different way. It
removes the correction of the fear from my control. As well as yours,
you see. And makes you feel personally responsible for them. This is an
obvious confusion of levels, the levels being mind and matter or mind
and that which renders visible and tangible, that which mind, God is
being. When you think that cause lies in the manifestation, you are
confused. And it's level of confusion.

