---
 title: Feng Shui
 audiofn: Feng_Shui
---

## {{page.title}}

With your back to the altar, you have taken on the persona of a warrior.
And so you have your armor and you have your behaviors as a warrior, as
a retaliator against. The attack coming from the world. And then you get
a little bit of Illumination And you try to incorporate it. Into your
experience and so you say, Ah, maybe the answer is not to be so warlike
but to express love. Oh, OK, well then I'm going to dismantle. My
fortress and I am going to make it lovelier. I'm going to make it less
aggressive appearing, more benign appearing. More attractive so people
won't. Be afraid of me. And I will behave in a new way that is loving.
Because something in me tells me. That loving kindness is more powerful.
Then hate And attack And so this person Makes the appearance more
lovely. But his back is still to the altar. You see, It is ultimately
still a defense against Being in one's right mind. It's still succumbing
to The idea that the world Separate from God. Actually does exist. But
needs to be treated in a new way and so. One joins with others. In a new
set of mutually agreed upon definitions of behavior. And they joined
together on a basis of justice. On the basis of Respect for human
rights. And they believe that their integrity and their High minded.
Values are a more worthy force in the world. Which can cause those who
Don't yet understand it. To knuckle under and get it. Whether they've
asked for it or not. Whereas if they turned to the altar. They would be
filled with the experience of love. That would illuminate them and their
behavior. And there would be no occasion to force others. To recognize
love. But by being the presence of love, Which has no ulterior motive to
it. It would tend to melt the fear. The behavior would be different. But
The actual healing element. would be the benign love at the center of
it. Radiating out and embracing. Everything Without having An ulterior
motive of coercion. You see,

