---
 title: Finessing the mind
 audiofn: Finessing_the_mind
---

## {{page.title}}

It is obvious that finessing the mind. To give up its miscreations is
the only application of creative ability that is truly meaningful. It's
the only one that will work. Inducing the mind is to Present an idea so
attractive. That the mind it is addressed to Finds it almost impossible
not to explore. But the Intent to explore it has to come to you for your
reasons. Else it's not you taking the step. It's not you making the
shift. Is someone else coming up behind you and picking you up and
moving you to a new spot. And if you didn't end up at that new spot
willingly, you will get back to the old spot as quickly as you can. With
great self-righteous indignation. But when you are induced. By an
utterly brilliant idea. That gets your attention. And you give your
attention to it. You are turning toward the altar. When you give your
attention. With intrigue. toward a new idea. That is at odds with The
status quo, the mutually agreed upon definitions. You are turning away
from them. And turning toward the altar. It's the Holy Spirit's agenda
to make turning around inviting. It's your agenda to turn around and
Fulfill your curiosity. And you must realize that you are not. The ego
sense of yourself that you have so strongly identified with, you've
never stopped being the presence of God, the Christ, and so that which
finds itself curious. To give its attention. To the truth and fulfill
its curiosity is the divine one that you are. Already in the process of
coming home. By Having been successfully enticed. In looking at things a
different way. Having been finessed into Abandoning your commitment to
the way you've always seen things, you see.

