---
 title: Focal point of creation
 audiofn: Focal_point_of_creation
---

## {{page.title}}

Your ability to think clearly is always at maximum. And so You won't get
any pity from me. If when you tell me it's hard and I say yes it is, but
persist and you say I can't. Yeah You won't get any pity from me. I will
be there I am here right now saying persist. You haven't for a moment
stopped being what the father. Created you to be because the Father in
this very instance is being you. You are the focal point of creation at
this very instant and at every instant that you could measure. So I will
say Open up your eyes, pay attention, be alert. There's a There's a news
flash for you coming from God at this very instant. And you have the
capacity to receive the message and to embody the message. And you don't
need to be afraid of God. Because he's all there is of you. All that God
is is embodied right where each one of you is. And you can best
understand it in the terms of a hologram. You have a hologram. You take
one little piece out of it and the whole thing is there. You can't use
that. Example precisely because Reality Can't be cut up into little
pieces. But the point is that every single speck of The infinite
creation that God is being. Includes all that God is. And that can't
change. And so your capacity. To Be conscious of and embody God is fully
present right now. Don't be afraid of what it takes. To have that come
more fully into your experience.

