---
 title: Forgiveness of definitions
 audiofn: Forgiveness_of_definitions
---

## {{page.title}}

You who want peace. Can find it only by complete forgiveness. So
obviously, Something held as unforgiven. In your consciousness. is what
deprives you of your peace. What is something that is unforgiven? You
often think that it is something someone else has done. That has caused
you to be upset with them. And you have yet to forgive them for what
they did. But I will tell you. That what needs to be forgiven. is that
of the presence of God. Which you have decided to define as something
other than God. And that could be a leaf. Or a rock It could be
something, anything that you say, oh, it's just matter. The moment you
say, oh, it's just matter. You have decided not to see God there. If
you're going to see God there, you will say, oh, Spirit. And you will be
curious to experience the fullness of spirit that is embodied there. But
as long as you say, oh, it's just matter. You've denied what it is. You
are holding it to be something different. And you have separated
yourself from the conscious experience of God. And so, Forgiveness needs
to be given to whatever it is that you have defined as something other
than God. And forgiveness amounts to the abandonment of your commitment
to your personal definition. Of the presence of God as something other
than the presence of God. Forgiveness is the abandonment of the
definitions you have given. To everything. The presence of God doesn't
need to be given a definition. It simply needs to be embraced and
experienced. So whatever you have given a definition to. Needs to be
forgiven. Not for what it did. It needs to be abandoned. The definition
needs to be abandoned by you. So that there is a space within you for
what it really is to register with you. You who want peace can find it
only by complete forgiveness. By being completely willing. Not to
energize. And be convinced of. Any definition you have made up. And
applied to the presence of God that makes the presence of God appear to
you to be something other than God. You see? No learning It is acquired
by anyone unless he wants to learn it and believes in some way that he
needs it. Well, I'll tell you something, you guys learn a whole lot. By
virtue of being very creative in the definitions you give to everything.
And then memorizing your definition. And making commitment to it, that's
learning. No learning is acquired by anyone unless he wants to learn it
and believes in some way that he needs it. And I'll tell you that
literally. Waking up Coming back into your right mind. It's not really a
process of learning, it's a process of unlearning. You don't need to
learn about reality. The experience of reality is utterly natural to
you. And you'll find that it's what's present as your conscious
experience of being. When you willingly abandon Your cherished
definitions of everything and each other and yourselves. A miracle is a
sudden shift of perception. Which occurs In an undefended moment. An
undefended moment is a moment which isn't full of your consciously.
Defining something Yeah However, You can experience an influx of
insight. Voluntarily A miracle happens involuntarily. And you can choose
to look at the sweet peas or the glass on the table. And desire to
experience what it truly is with a willingness to invalidate any
definition whatsoever you might have of it. And Have the Influx of
clarity come. And that wouldn't be defined as a miracle. Isn't it
interesting? The minute you take, let us say, the sweet pea. And you
say, oh, it's part of the plant kingdom. Um, it, it, it arrived in my
experience through a process of evolution of physical evolution through
chance and natural selection. It's a part of the physical universe
which, uh, originated with the Big Bang and God has nothing to do with
it. Well, you know what, the moment you define anything in your
experience as something other than God. You have deprived yourself of
the conscious experience of what it is, and you're in a state of need.
Now Although you might enjoy the sweet peas. As what you have defined
them to be. It's like there's a hole in you. There's an emptiness in
you. Because The experience of what it divinely is. Should be naturally
and unavoidably available to you, and it's not. Because you've got that
space filled with your definition. And so there is an emptiness that you
cannot identify. You can't identify what's missing because you're in an
act of denying what it is. So this state of need impels you. To improve
your situation. It it impels you to get out of the need. And it tells
you to look for the fulfillment of that emptiness. In the world of your
own definitions. And that's why you're constantly trying to improve
yourself, and that's why you're constantly trying to improve your world
when the only thing that will remove the need. is for you to abandon
your definitions. And leave, leave an empty space where your definition
had been. So that the presence of God that was always there might
register with you. The dissatisfaction which accompanies lack. Causes
you to look in the wrong place for fulfillment. It implies that you
would be better off in a state somehow different from the one you are
in. And this is why I keep homing in on the fact. That the only thing
confronting you, the only thing in your face is the kingdom of heaven,
and right here, right now, right with the sweet peas, right with the
glass table top, the carpeting, your fingernails, whatever, right there
is right here is where your attention needs to be given with the
curiosity to see the more of what reality is, then your definition is
allowing you to see. The answer is not. A state somehow different from
the one you are in or a place different from the one you are in. The
only thing you can deprive yourself of is the conscious experience of
God because there isn't anything else available for you to deny.

