---
 title: Fulfilling purpose
 audiofn: Fulfilling_purpose
---

## {{page.title}}

Everyone has to learn how to fit in. But you have to learn how to fit in
to what fulfills purpose. And it will always be, how do I fit in to what
fulfills purpose in my life. In my immediate life. Because what fulfills
purpose in one person's life is different from what fulfills purpose in
another person's life. And I mean this in the sense of The fact that
what fulfills purpose in this person's life and what fulfills purpose in
this person's life. Is relative to the father's purpose being fulfilled
or the purpose of being being fulfilled wholly universally, and each
one's apparently different fulfillment of purpose has its place in the
larger context. Not to have what allows fulfillment of purpose in your
life. It is inappropriate And needs to be corrected. The point is to be
on target in your life. And so you have to pay attention to where the
movement is, where the beam is, so that you can be on it. And when
you're on it, you will recognize what fits. And it may appear that you
have more than someone else, but someone else has what fits, and it's
perfect for them and it's perfect in the larger context of things. Now,
How much each one has. is not the issue. It's whether each one is on
purpose or not. So somebody may have an SUV and an RV and a BMW, etc.
going down the road. If it fulfills purpose, great. If it's a
fulfillment of ego wants, that is not great. And that's where coming
back into balance is needed. If you have 3 expensive cars and you have
them to prove to the world how great you are, you're out of balance. And
you need to come back into balance. And so someone witnessing for you on
your behalf would be one who would illustrate these points to you in a
way that you could grasp, hopefully. And begin to see differently so
that your behavior would voluntarily change. And so that you would pay
less attention to how other people saw you and more attention to whether
you are on the beam on target with your life relative to The fulfillment
of your life that is a result of being in harmony with what God is
expressing of Himself right where you are.

