---
 title: Give It away
 audiofn: Give_It_away
---

## {{page.title}}

By following him. This which is nothing more than your right mind. He
leads you back to God where you belong. And how can you find this way?
Here it is. Except by taking your brother with you. My part in the
atonement is not complete until you join it and give it away. As you
teach, so shall you learn. I will never leave you or forsake you.
Because to forsake you would be to forsake myself and God who created
me. You will forsake yourselves and God if you forsake any of your
brothers. So you want to come home? Grab someone's hand. You will be
lifted up as they are lifted up. When you look at your brother, And
render him unto God because he's God's. You put yourself in the position
of remembering his real identity. His son who Because you've
acknowledged God as the source of Him. And now you have a gift to give
to him. And it's a gift that will give your identity. Back to you. If
you don't do it and you leave your brother out in the cold. You're out
there with him. This is the unyielding. immovable way things work. And
there's no shortcut. There's no way to get around it. So roll up your
sleeves, everyone. And get involved For your sake And get your blessing.
Because you extend a blessing to your brother. Because you've arrived at
a place where you are miserable enough that you are willing to try the
very radical action of being the presence of love and caring about
someone else more than your own self-protection.

