---
 title: Global community
 audiofn: Global_community
---

## {{page.title}}

Your sense of community. In your own mind. Has to include more. Your
sense of community truly needs to be global. If your sense of community
is global. Where you are consciously. Wanting Healing The sudden shift
of perception that constitutes the miracle for all of your brothers
everywhere. You You will find that this will color or affect. Every
aspect of your day. Your behavior will be different. And I might say
that the way you move your little finger when you aren't even thinking
about your little finger. will have a global or universal effect. As
Citizens of your world. As members of a global brotherhood. And your
conscious caring. that every one of you Experienced the very best. will
begin to be reflected. In the governments that represent you. And I'm,
I'm addressing anyone from any country. Living under any government.
When there is an intent to bless, when there is an intent. To heal. When
there is an intent. To experience the happy dream. Those who represent
you. We begin to represent that. But you know what? You have to Express
it You have to embody it in words. You have to become, as I've said,
involved. What I'm intending to do here. is to get the ball rolling, set
this into motion. With each of you. So that you might care enough not to
get caught up in any current sense of justice, uh. That you might be
invited to participate in. But rather For you to become consciously
involved in healing. Which absolutely does require saying no. To that
which doesn't represent the happy dream, to that which doesn't represent
harmony. To that which promotes harm. What you might be given to do
might seem quite inconsequential. Not in the least bit earth shaking.
But the little amount of force that the flapping of a butterfly wing
involves. Does indeed have its effect globally. All I'm trying to do is
to help you bring your attention to where it needs to be in order to
promote the sudden shifts of consciousness.
Tags (0)


