---
 title: Glorifying God
 audiofn: Glorifying_God
---

## {{page.title}}

And God saw everything that he had made. And behold, it was good. And
I've shared before that that means, and God saw everything he had made,
and behold, it was verily God. God being. It is a process you might say
of God recognizing Himself. So the movement of God is the movement of
God being. Which naturally takes form as God expressed or God
expressing, and so the expression is in motion, God expressing and God
seeing the expression and recognizing Himself. God recognizing Himself
is God glorifying God. Now If you are, God expressed. Then your function
must be the same thing as the movement of creation is, which is God
recognizing God, God glorifying God. And so that's why I say glorifying
God is your function. Which means recognizing God in each and every
thing. And that's why it's so important to be curious when you look at
everything like a leaf or a tree or a pair of eyeglasses. And not
assuming you know what it's about if you're not seeing God there. And
being curious to see. What of God is there? Because that's the way you
open yourself up to recognizing God in everything. And then you're no
longer at odds with God by seeing what you have decided you want to call
everything, you see. It's your function to glorify God because There's
really nothing else for you to do except to recognize God in everything.
And bear witness to it.

