---
 title: Go within and ask
 audiofn: Go_within_and_ask
---

## {{page.title}}

The atonement is a total commitment. And atonement means An act of love.
So atonement means commitment to eternal acts of love. So you've got to
love your brother and your sister enough. To not honor who they are
presenting themselves as. But with them in mind specifically one on one,
go within and ask God what is the truth here. About My friend Revealed
to me. The divine presence. That has to be here in order for me to see.
Something less because my vision isn't complete. You must use each other
as your reason for turning to God. So that in turning to God you are
Blessed with vision that causes your experience of your brother or
sister who drove you to God. And Be able to give back the gift that God
has given you. And now we have an act of love that came from God that
was started by your willingness to have an object of your affection and
use that object of your affection, even if he or she has been a real
bitch or bastard. To use that one as a reason. For asking to see the
truth and turning to God, so that you might have the influx of the gift
of vision that is imbued with love. And which, because it has infilled
you, causes you to send out messengers of love spontaneously without a
single thought of premeditation. That will go out to your brother or
sister. Who is your reason you turn to God, who you are caring enough to
ask God about? And bring back to you confirmation of the loveliness. The
divinity, the innocence. The perfection Of your brother or sister. You
see? The commitment to your brother or sister. To engage in an act of
love means that you are going to turn to God to learn of your brother or
sister. Because until you're connected with God, you don't have the
foggiest idea of what love is, because you and everyone else are
operating on the basis of your mutually agreed upon definitions of love,
and those mutually agreed upon definitions of love have nothing to do
with doing something for someone else. They have only to do with getting
something yourself. Security where it doesn't exist to be had. Safety
where it doesn't exist to be had. Success where it doesn't exist to be
had. Having a deep commitment. To not Engage in those acts of love.
Frivolously, haphazardly, offhandedly. There must be A deep commitment.
To connecting securely and solidly. With the Holy Spirit. Or with me or
with your guide. Or with God So that you can feel the utter
appropriateness of whatever the act turns out to be. So that you can
feel. The divinity of it.

