---
 title: God extensions
 audiofn: God_extensions
---

## {{page.title}}

And when the sun's mind is healed, the creations that he extends. Are
the presence of God that he's not blocking from finding its way through
Him. Again, The sun never becomes. And actually independent extender. Of
anything. And that's why I have used the illustration of everyone being
a puppet, either of the voice for truth or the voice for fear. The
puppet of God. Or the puppet of the ego. In an undefended moment in
which revelation occurs. And you experience bliss. Everyone else can
tell. Because you extended it spontaneously. You might say
automatically. There's no thought to it. There's no conscious direction
of the extension. When you're feeling joy, you're feeling joy. When
you're feeling bliss, you're feeling bliss, and that. exudes from you
spontaneously. And that's your extension. But not an extension of
anything you privately, personally originated. It's the order of God,
you might say. It's the order. Of the originator Of the extension Which
is God. And as it illuminates and exudes from Every aspect of what God
is. Every aspect is apparently extending. Making the same gift. And the
gift is love. And so this extension. Of love That you could say goes on
and on and on infinitely. expresses the order the Character, the uh The
nature You might say The scent or aroma. Of the love that God is. And
this nature and order and Aroma That finds extension. Without being
altered in any way. Because no part of the sun ship is trying to
introduce any Private little bias to it. Keeps The original intent.
unaltered And so every aspect of the creation of God. becomes a
participant. In expressing God. And the fact is that that's what all of
you are at this very instant. Even though you're momentarily preoccupied
with personal needs and personal crises and personal concerns, etc.
Well, the ego says that. Huh. Some free will that is. God has endowed
you with free will. To do nothing but reflect him. Don't be fooled.
That's not free will, but he did give you free will. You really do. have
the capacity. To think and be independently from what God is. But the
fact is, That you didn't originate yourself. And because of that, you
never have authority over what you're going to be in reality. And so the
only choice you have. is to either be the reflection of God or to
imagine. To indulge in a fantasy. That you have some capacity. To be
independent and all that amounts to is that you Force yourself to become
unconscious. Of your function. So at the bottom line, you only have two
choices. You have the choice to be conscious. A reality or temporarily
unconscious of it. That's the ultimate of your exercise of free will. To
embrace or resist the movement of God. To allow it To consume you and to
be you. So that you might involuntarily You illuminate everyone and
everything in your presence. With the experience of bliss. Or Block it.
And share with everyone. Your resistance to it. When your minds are
healed. Then Your experience of God's extension as you. Illuminates you,
fills you up. And it shows all over you, not by an individual
authorization coming from you. But Because it overflowed you. It still
remains within you to extend as God extended His Spirit to you. Your
function has never been lost to you. It has not shriveled up and blown
away. You have not lost the capacity. Each one of you is still fully
functional as God created you. You are as fully functional as God is
being you in this moment. You should stop using the word created. God
did not create you sometime in the past. God is being you. In this
instant Behold, I make all things new. It still remains within you. To
extend as God extended His Spirit to you. Now here's Here's the zinger
again about the free will. In reality, this is your only choice. Because
your free will was given you for your joy in creating the perfect. By
letting God be all there is to you. So that right where you are, God is
finding expression, not a puny little personality. You see, You're
probably going to get tired of hearing this. I haven't said it a lot,
but as time goes on, I will be reminding you. I am inseparable from each
one of you just as you are inseparable from all of us who are awake.
Walk out of here. Curious to see if I have anything to say to you on the
way home.


