---
 title: God of group consensus
 audiofn: God_of_group_consensus
---

## {{page.title}}

At the bottom line. Fear is the uneasiness that you inevitably and
unavoidably feel when you have decided to determine what everything
means for yourself, by yourself. Which means that you have. In effect,
separated yourself from the Father. You've separated yourself from The
ground of your being. And the effect is ungroundedness. Instead of
recognizing that the uneasiness that you're feeling. is the result of An
attempt to look at everything by yourself. And knowing immediately that
the answer to the uneasiness is to abandon. The Declaration of
Independence that you have asserted. You make the assumption that your
uneasiness is caused by everything you're seeing. By your environment,
by circumstances, by those in your experience. And it seems then that
your task is to make peace. With all of these objects and things that
are foreign to you. Now The mistake you make is In assuming that Peace
will be the result of agreements. that peace will be the result of
mutually agreed upon definitions. that peace will be the result of
Cooperation between Separate and different parts. And in the process of
forming definitions which will be mutually agreed upon. And thereby
seemed to provide The appearance of peace and the apparent lack of need
for fear. You all end up feeling each other out. In order to find the
place where there's the least amount of resistance, the least amount of
dissonance. And so your mutually agreed upon definition. ends up not
reflecting The integrity The innate integrity of each member of the
group. But rather The laziest least strenuous. Elements That are
characteristic of the group as a whole. In other words, it's the way the
group Arrives at consensus. While no member of the group declares
himself or herself. And every member of the group stays in the safe
zone. Without any Need for commitment to anything definite. Mutually
agreed upon definitions. are by definition indefinite. They represent
the lowest common denominator of the group. Because that's what you get
when you don't step on each other's egos. I'll tell you something. Wars
are the result. Of The attempt of the group. To squelch anyone. who
begins to be definite. And introduce a call for definiteness. So, Now
Anyone who might have An insight or A recognition of the value. Of not
being uncommitted, of not being indefinite. Who speaks up and makes
waves. Disturbs the status quo. That one is attacked. That one is
immediately met with all form of arguments. which have as their goal. To
cause this one to settle down. And abandon any call for definiteness.
And to come back into What I have called a false sense of peace. And so
Everyone in the group watches this. And realizes That there is Something
to fear. And there's something to fear is Being the oddball. The
something to fear is Standing out. In the group Now what I want you to
realize is That the effort of the group to squelch Any Original Or
focused idea. What what I want you to see most clearly is That as
everyone observes this happen. And learns to keep still. They are
operating. Under a system of terrorism. You are hearing a lot about
terrorism, and you tend still to think of it as a generic term,
something to think about. And you need To feel inside yourself what
terrorism means. I have been calling you out of this stupid safe zone.
that you all thought you have had available to you. I have called upon
you to go within. Turn toward the altar. Ask to know. The truth To let
yourself be filled with it. So that you might experience knowing what
the truth is. At an experiential level. So that you might be able to
cast your vote and act. Act, not think. But act. On what you know. To
embody it in the world. In other words, to make it visible. Any of you
who have given any thought, any consideration to what I've said. have
found yourself. Feeling More vulnerable By virtue of casting a vote and
for your vote not to be some secret, you are holding in. In a holy
atmosphere, H O L Y, a holy atmosphere in your mind. If you're going to
Act if you are going to embody in the world. The truth that you know.
It's going to be visible. It's going to be noticeable. Your vote will
have been cast and it will be public. And when you get down to the point
of realizing that This is what atonement is about. I know that every
single one of you have experienced some fear around doing that. Because
you will stick out like a sore thumb. The tendency is to think that when
I say cast your vote. I am asking you to be for or against something. To
be for or against something, you've got to have your back to the altar
and your for or against definitions have to relate to everything you
see. Without the father's perspective available to you. There's a third
alternative. You can either be for or against something, or you can be
with. God With the father. Now we're not talking about for or against.
And when you're standing with the Father, Everything you be. will never
be able to be successfully defined as attack. Even though those with
their backs still to their altars. We'll see your definiteness. As a
judgment upon them. Awakening. is fulfilling And satisfying. But it's
not fun. The reason it's not fun. It is because you're approaching being
sane from an insane perspective and you are therefore unable to truly
judge. The divine dynamics. Of your sanity. Truly And so you
automatically think. You're being asked to be for or against something.
When it's all about being with God in unity. In the realm of mutually
agreed upon definitions, the majority rules. But one with God. is a
majority. And that majority. Makes all the difference in the world. And
your world will change. Because You have come into a place of alignment
within yourself. Relative to God. And this experience does not include
within itself fear or vulnerability. The reason I said this is not fun.
Is it because it requires you to make commitment to Something other than
the lowest common denominator of the group. And the group has been your
God. And you're not used. To being in a way other than Honoring The go
Called Group Consensus. You have to arrive at a point of being willing
to make commitment. To truth, commitment to love. A truth and a love
that at the moment you don't comprehend the real meaning of. And so you
have to lean into what is for you the unknown. You have to lean into
what for you. is a void And become defenseless. So that you might be
infilled with insight. And revelation. So that you actually change. And
stop operating on the old basis of mutually agreed upon definitions.
Meaning the group consensus. You're afraid to cast your vote because you
think that casting your vote means being for or against something. Being
willing to cast your vote as I'm speaking of it means being willing to
stand with the Father. In whom All creation exists. I will tell you
that. Once you begin. To recognize the divine character and nature of
Embodying God. In acts. In your world. Whether such intent and action It
is easy for you or not because of your prior state of mind, your
separated state of mind. You begin To enjoy Casting your vote. And you
begin to feel The joy of the brotherhood that is awake. As they rejoice
in every act of embodying the Father's will that every single one of you
engages in, no matter how tiny it is. When I say it's not fun. I am
saying it So that you will understand that the fear you feel. When you
dare to cast your vote. is an integral part. Of shifting out of the
mutually agreed upon definitions out of the group consensus. And that
that is not justification for Refraining from casting your vote.

