---
 title: Group hallucination
 audiofn: Group_hallucination
---

## {{page.title}}

You, the only thing that there is real about the whole thing. Must bring
your willingness to validate the voice you're listening to. And you give
it all the life it has because you're the only part of the equation that
is alive. The ego has no life. It isn't a thing. It is a non-existent
imagination. It is powerless. It must borrow its power from the only
thing that is real, and that's you, and you all give it. Your life and
your energy. And you validate it and then you cry and cry and cry
because of how tough things are. And how mean the ego is. Just because I
talk about the ego, just because the course in miracles talks about the
ego, uh, just because psychology talks about the ego doesn't mean we're
talking about something actual. It's a group hallucination. And it's an
individual hallucination. It's The sons and daughters of God. Taking the
energy of God. And using it to validate something that doesn't exist and
then suffering from the misperception that follows. There is no ego. And
no matter how great and lengthy a definition you all through the use of
your imagination can come up with. You're still describing something
nonexistent. You're talking about nothing. Isn't it obvious that such an
endeavor or activity is a total waste of time? It is, it is an activity
that isn't even really happening. But while it isn't happening, And
you're making it seem to happen. You are forgetting to say God. What's
the truth here? Be careful that your definition of the ego doesn't
become so clear to you. And so understandable to you. That you feel
overwhelmed. And totally incapable. Of shifting your attention to
something else. Simply shifting your attention to something else. And in
doing that, disregarding. The ego disregarding nothing. Disregarding
that which doesn't exist. Why does that weaken the ego? Because you've
withdrawn your energy from it. You're not giving it any life anymore.
Does that answer your question? Thank you for asking.


