---
 title: Happy dream
 audiofn: Happy_dream
---

## {{page.title}}

The happy dream Is children not starving. The happy dream is Harmony
Between countries Between governments Between people. The happy dream is
a world. That someone from another planet could discover and recognize
That there is intelligence. Governing That the meaning of love has been
discovered. And embodied. It will not look like a world where Injury and
hurt. And starvation And suffering of all kinds is going on. But
everyone is walking around with a smile on their face. Experiencing
this. Intangible something that they're calling The happy dream. The
happy dream. is going to look like a world in harmony. Where no form of
suffering. I even seeming to occur. The happy dream is not going to be.
An inner bliss that you experience through giving some ethereal
definition to the suffering that is going on so that you somehow arrive
at The insane The idea That the suffering that's going on isn't really
suffering. But some part of the development and refinement of the souls.
who appear to be suffering. That is absolutely essential to their To
their waking up. And therefore is fulfilling God's purpose. And it
doesn't need to be addressed. It doesn't Call for correction. It doesn't
call for you or you or anyone else to somehow get food into their mouth.
Or somehow hug that little girl or that little boy, dirty little girl
and dirty little boy living in a hovel. Who has tears streaming down his
or her face and comforting him or comforting her. And Embodying Love and
embodying the elements of the happy dream. So that the situation can be
transformed because Truth and love has been illuminated to them by your
actions. And as Their tears are wiped away, and as there are fewer and
fewer occasions for them to have tears. The happy dream is coming into
view. But the happy dream is not private. And isn't something you can
engage in all by yourself.

