---
 title: Healing pure energy
 audiofn: Healing_pure_energy
---

## {{page.title}}

sh against. Whatever limits you're insisting on using when you're
beholding reality. It will constantly Be engaged in undoing your
commitment. To your illusion And so, You Cover up What seems to confirm
the illusion. And then in the absence of that confirmation that you
would get by looking at it, you In your mind Stay with the
acknowledgement of what actually has to be there. And your willingness
to abandon your misperception. And your desire to have what is real.
Register with you. Your body is nothing but pure energy. The energy is
actually the energy of spirit. There is no matter to it. Now the fact is
that the energy of spirit is love. And love is light. The energy That
appears to you to be flesh and blood. is For lack of better words. An
organization, a gathering together. Of intelligent Living love. Energy.
It is intelligent in the sense. That it desires. To Identify The will of
God or the idea In God's mind, in the mind that is God. That The flesh
and blood is identifying You could say that the energy of spirit that is
love that is light are pulses of light. Impulsed by ideas held in the
mind that is God. Their function is To render God's idea experienable.
Without the experience ever becoming matter. Therefore, at this moment,
they are not what everyone generally considers matter to be. Fear And
egotism Join together To create mental stress. That causes the energy of
spirit or the kingdom of heaven. To be altered. In terms of the
perception. Of the one claiming to be an ego and experiencing fear. And
it causes the energy of spirit that is love, that is light. To be seen
or experienced with a density that it doesn't have and a darkness that
it doesn't have. Now, If you understand that your body Is not matter But
it is an idea Held in the mind that God is. That identifies the presence
of you. Who are The full presence of God. Expressed and expressing. Then
It becomes obvious that At the real bottom line. The energy of spirit
that is love that is light. That arranges itself to identify an idea
that is in the mind of God. desires. Because it is its purpose. Desires
to identify that idea perfectly. Therefore, Your body desires to
identify you perfectly because that's its function. That's it's God
derived function. So if you want to experience the idea. Without
material accompaniments. But as the energy that is spirit that is love,
that is light, identifying God perfectly. You must be willing to
abandon. The imaginative idea. That you are an ego in your own right
with a mind and a capacity to be creative in your own right. Because any
capacity of personal creativity that you employ is exactly what and
darkens and apparently densifies. The energy of spirit that is light
that is love into unilluminated matter. And In this misperception and
because of the fear. You seem to create for yourselves irregularities
like warts or cancer or Any of the uh Uh, inhibitions, uh, to perfect
free flowing, happy functioning of your body that you experience. God
hasn't abandoned his idea. And the energy of spirit that is love, that
is light hasn't lost its Intent and its desire To render experienable
the idea in the mind of God. As God conceived it absolutely perfectly.
Absolutely everything you see. is An idea And they are not matter. And
when you understand that, You will be able to pass your hand through the
glass. You will be able to pass through each other. You will experience
the light rather than Dense opaqueness. And when you experience the
light, The light will be felt as love. You will see it and know that it
is love, expressing a divine idea in the mind of God. That God is
Minding or being. At the very moment you're seeing it. You will
recognize it as love. Blatant love and you will also experience being
loved by it. And you will also experience the fact that you are the love
that you are being loved by. The substance that looks like a hand with a
wart is still the substance of spirit, which is love, which is light,
which has the great grand ultimate desire to gather together. In a form,
in an arrangement that clearly identifies God's intent. And therefore
your body is on your side. It's your ally. You don't need to be afraid
of it. You don't need to doubt it. You don't need to go around in a
constant state of tension because what is it going to do next? Well,
what it's going to do next is identify God so gloriously and perfectly
that it will be a wonderful experience. That is what it is doing at this
instant. Right now the ultimate is what is happening and the ultimate is
Also, what desires to register with you. Because it's the truth. Just be
willing to doubt your confidence. That you know what a thing is and that
it's matter, and this is the way matter behaves. You've got to abandon
your trust in your confidences. What can you lose by? Abandoning your
trust in such limiting confidences that ensure suffering. It's a happy
thing to engage in. And if you're willing to invest some trust, In the
capital W way things work as I've described them. You become less
defended against experiencing it. You become less shielded. To the
penetration. Of the truth of it So that it can register with you more
clearly. As all of you sit on grassy knolls in the middle of the kingdom
of heaven having your daydream. of being somewhere else. You're still
there. In the middle of the kingdom of heaven. Just, just accept the
simplicity of that idea. So that realization and clarification Isn't
conceived by you. To have to be something complicated. To get out of"

