---
 title: Healing meditation
 audiofn: Healing_meditation
---

## {{page.title}}

Now You all talk about wanting to wake up. You're all reading the course
because you want to wake up, or you want to experience enlightenment.
And in order for you to experience this, you're going to need to
experience healing. And you're going to need for your brothers and
sisters to experience healing. And you're going to need to contribute.
To the experience of healing. Whatever standards of reasoning are being
used to justify a problem. Exist in a different realm than the realm of
reality where that thing that needs correction. Doesn't exist. Because
for lack of better words, God didn't create it. God did not create you
to suffer. God didn't create your brother to suffer. God didn't create
you to have diseases. God didn't create your brother to have diseases.
God didn't create you or your brother to have a capacity to mistreat
yourself and thereby actually cause justifiable damage or disease that
you must therefore Suffer through. Because you must pay for your flaws
and your failure. God didn't do it. Therefore, whether it's cancer, or
whether it's a sudden injury from accident, you are Not bound. You are
not bound to suffer from it. For more than an instant. If God didn't set
it into motion, it hasn't been set into motion, and the experience
you're having. is not going on in your right mind. Because there is
another arena in which reality is going on and is governed by God. There
is awaiting you escape from whatever mindset you have bound yourself to
or whatever false interpretations you have placed upon all of creation.
So that you are misunderstanding it and misbehaving with it. In a way
that's causing you discomfort. You all deserve to be healed. You hear
that? You all deserve to be healed. There is nothing that exists that
can justify your suffering, no matter what. And if you want to
experience waking up, if you want to experience enlightenment, You're
going to have to stop employing what keeps you from experiencing it.
Now, In metaphysical lingo. A phrase has come into play. And it's not a
very kind phrase, but it's one that gets used. Over and over. There's a
reason for everything. When this is used metaphysically speaking, It can
be used in the most nebulous of ways to imply that if you're having this
problem or that problem, well, there's a reason for it. Maybe it's
karma. Maybe if something It's fouled up in your mind, but there's a
reason for everything. Not true. The end of disease and injury. Will
never come As long as you believe there is a reason for it. What do you
mean? I just saw that. bus hit that fellow and severed his arm. What do
you mean his arm wasn't severed? What do you mean? There wasn't any
reason for it. What I mean is That if God did not enact that. Drama It
hasn't happened. And in the realization that it hasn't happened,
instantaneous healing can occur. Instantaneous healing. Can occur Would
you not like to be an agent for change, for that kind of experience? You
can be But you have to be willing to look at things and not take them.
The way you have Determined them to be by the definitions you have been
employing. Of course in miracles Came into existence, we'll say, because
someone said, There must be a different way to look at this. And there
is. But as long as you continue to look the old way and hold on to it
with all vigor. You will not see the different way. You will not see the
healing. You will not see the transformation and You will not see
release and restoration. You're not bound. To suffer. You're not bound
to continue to do what doesn't work and what doesn't serve you. The Holy
Spirit That which is nothing more than your right mind. Like me, says
healing is what you should be experiencing. Even though you in your
right mind, together with me, know that you've never been less than what
God created you as, that you are nothing less than what God is being
right where you are right now, and therefore, there literally is nothing
occurring that needs healing. You And I know this. At the moment, I'm
the only one of us who believes it. But the knowing is in you. When you
actually take time to be silent. To go within. And you find that your
thinking has been abandoned. And you are experiencing the peace of your
being. There is something else accompanying it. It is the experience of
love. And the experience of joy. And the love is loving you. But you
also know that the love that's loving you is the love that you are. And
the love that's loving you is infinite. Not confined. To what you
thought you are. That everything and all of creation Is extending you
love. And this love that's coming from all of creation. Is the love that
you are. And there is inseparable oneness. Let the experience of being
actively loved. In I love you very much. All of you.


