---
 title: Healing at the Altar
 audiofn: Healing_at_the_Altar
---

## {{page.title}}

We were talking about the altar. And that the problems that are
experienced are a result of having one's back turned to the altar. And
becoming distracted by the glow, the effulgence. That surrounds the
altar. And then because one is in. A conscious disconnectedness. With
his divinity, the altar. There is an experience of fear. An inevitable
unavoidable experience of fear, anxiety, concern, vulnerability. And
that one then begins to Manipulate the glow. As a defense It is
inevitable. That all of you will find that as you turn back to the
altar. Where the opportunity of becoming connected once again with the
very essence of you. Which is The flame, if you will, the illumination
of love that's in the center of the altar. That healing will be the
result. Healing, it will be what you will have increasing evidence of.
Remember That fear is occasioned. By having consciously disconnected
yourself from your capital S self. The altar Which is the presence of
God. And remember also that to try to defend yourself or save yourself
from what you find yourself fearing. You must not try to manipulate. The
glow More efficiently, you must turn around toward the altar. Healing is
the result. Expected Demand it. And if you aren't experiencing it yet,
persist. In turning back to the altar. Giving your attention to it so
that you might be infilled with the capital L love that you are. That
helps remind you that it's Senseless for you to be standing apart from
it, observing it. And so that you might have a Back into the love
experience like a back into the body experience. Now you will not
understand the healing. As long as you have your back to the altar. But
the moment you turn toward the altar. And you are not giving your
attention. To your fearful. Establishment of defense. You will find
yourself feeling loved. By the light of the altar. Which is your
essential being and is the presence of God in you as you. And as that
love infills you, Fear will leave. And the evidence of fear will leave.
And perfection is what you will find yourself experiencing. And you will
understand. What has happened? But it is not as though the understanding
is what brought about the healing. And you will know that as well. You
will know That the love you have been embraced by from the altar. Is the
very love that you are. And In the absence of any sense of separation
from it. You will feel The wholeness of your being. That has always been
available. For you to experience. And what you will understand is love
is the answer. What you will understand is that giving your attention to
the love that you are. The altar in the center of view. Rather than to
that which you would defend yourself against. Demonstrates the fact that
what you were afraid of. It was an illusion This I call a knowing rather
than an understanding. It's the truth experienced by you consciously.
Not over and against anything. But it's the only thing that is real. And
right now when you are feeling defended in any aspect. Truth is still
the only thing that is real about you.

