---
 title: Healing the separation
 audiofn: Healing_the_separation
---

## {{page.title}}

They must learn to look upon the world as a means of healing the
separation. Let that Statement ring in your mind. I encourage you to
write it down and put it on your refrigerator to see for this coming
week. The world that you are living in is the means of healing the
separation. It is the place where you must bring your willingness to see
God. And it is a step that cannot be sidestepped. You cannot wake up
without blessing this world first. So stop calling it an illusion. Stop
thinking that there's some way to jump ahead. and avoid Looking at
anything and everything that you're experiencing with the desire to see
it through God's eyes so that it becomes blessed by your willingness to
return to your. Original function. Of being the presence of love without
ever again holding out for another option. A backup. The only thing that
you are provided with that you can attempt to distort into something
else is the presence of God. The only material given to you to imagine
that you can manipulate. Is the infinite presence of God. So look at
your brother, look at the leaf, look at the tree, look at the water.
Look at the carpet, the glass, whatever. The, the, the burned candle
wick. With an interest and curiosity. To see God there, to have God
revealed. You know, you don't have. An ugly material world to overcome.
You have A perception of the world that you need to abandon. You have a
perception of the kingdom of heaven that you need to abandon. And I will
keep saying that. So that you will grasp that we're not talking about a
project of major proportions. It's, it all lies in a change of mind. A
sudden shift of perception. A miracle. And The miracle Isn't complicated
or difficult. It's as simple As a shift of attention. Whether it happens
to you tonight or this week or a month from now. It doesn't change the
fact that all we're talking about is a light bulb going on and aha, a
shift of perspective, not an overcoming of a lie of an illusion. When
you look at it and say, wow. Maybe there's actual divine meaning there.
An experience, an inner experience of Pure love And I want to be
undefended enough. To feel the love and to feel what the meaning of love
is right there in that particular configuration. Aren't you forgiving?
It Your perception that you're casting upon it. That is forgiving it.
Your misperceptions or whatever your whatever you think your current
correct perceptions are, you see. That's forgiveness. Being willing to
abandon. The perceptions you would hold it to based upon your education.
And All the peculiar little beliefs that you have made commitment to
that surrounded. Because forgiveness is involved. And forgiveness is
simply saying, I'd like to see what's really there. That's not hard.
That's a pleasant occupation. It's a willingness to conceive the
possibility. That there's more there than matter. More than an illusion.
And that what's there will speak of wholeness. And bliss. In fullness
Not just of its Wholeness and fullness and bliss, but yours as well.

