---
 title: Healing dominance
 audiofn: Healing_dominance
---

## {{page.title}}

Your perfection is unalterable. Which means you haven't become
imperfect. You are as perfect at this moment as the moment God conceived
you. That is an unchangeable eternal fact. Your existence is an
unchangeable eternal fact. That which renders visible and tangible your
eternal existence is also eternal. And because that's the fact. And the
problem is not. Then the truth about you is dominant. And the problem is
not. And that which is dominant overtakes naturally. That which is not
dominant. Your healing is insisting upon happening. Your perfection is
insisting upon registering with you. The presence of God that is your
individuality is insisting on registering with you as you. Flawless All
of the steps of yielding that you're engaging in. And all of the
changing that you're allowing to happen. is not some effort on your
part. To coerce a problem. Into something better. It's the way in which
you become undefended against. The unchangeable perfection of your being
coming into your awareness. And registering with you. Your unchanging
eternal perfection of you is intent upon reaching you just as you are
wanting to reach it. And if you If you will let it Register in your mind
that the perfection of you is dominant. It's important for you not to be
doing this by yourself. Because There is nothing. In existence. That is
more dominant. than that which is responsible for existence, which is
God. God's work is done and was done from the beginning. And never was
altered. And that which was never altered is insisting upon registering
with you as never having been altered, which you will recognize as No
problem to heal. Your healing is not a matter of overcoming matter. A
material body And so what I'm finagling into your awareness here. Is
that personal effort and personal responsibility and the potential for
personal failure. At effecting a healing. It is an entirely false thing
for you to be engaged with in your mind or concerned about. Now, that
doesn't mean that you're not going to experience yieldings. It doesn't
mean that you don't have definitions that you need to let go of. But If
you're less preoccupied with what you're doing in that regard and how
well you're doing it. And you're more attentive. To Holding to the fact
of the allness of God. And the fact that God's work is done. His
expression of your perfection is already accomplished and was from the
beginning, and that's what's dominant. Because that is what is real.
That awareness. Will allow you to let go of fear. It will give you a
place to give your confidence. And that will mean that you will express
less confidence in your own doubts. Your healing is seeking you You're
healing Your wholeness is intent upon registering with you. And that
will be recognized as healing.

