---
 title: Hearing the Voice
 audiofn: Hearing_the_Voice
---

## {{page.title}}

First of all, you don't know what God's voice sounds like. And that in
itself causes you not to hear it. Because it's new. And so that's why
it's important to persist in asking and listening. Because there is
always a response. Your guides are available to you constantly. Your
guides. Speak to you often. And you don't hear. First of all, because
usually you're not listening, you're taking care of everything yourself.
But once you learn that you have guidance available to you. Then you
begin to listen as though there is going to be a response. You've got to
be willing to abide in the listening mode. So that you can begin to make
sense out of that space. So that the characteristics of Silence As
opposed to your busyness of thinking. Can begin to register with you as
something other than just emptiness. The key is persistence. It's as
simple as that. Understand that every time you ask you are responded to.
Understand that. Your guide has ways to find effective means for
registering with you. But understand that beginning to listen is the
breaking of it. A long standing habit of active independence. An
independence which is geared for Being sustained by not allowing
anything to interfere with it. So don't be surprised if you don't hear
quickly. And persist in the gentle desire to hear. When you ask a
question, it helps to ask it softly. It's almost like homeopathy. The
less there is of the substance, the more powerful it becomes. The
gentler and quieter your question, the easier it will be to hear because
you are bringing less willfulness into the act of asking.

