---
 title: Heaven and earth
 audiofn: Heaven_and_earth
---

## {{page.title}}

Heaven and earth shall pass away. Means that they will not continue to
exist as separate states. Well, We've been talking at quite some length
about the fact that the only thing you're ever confronted with is
reality, the kingdom of heaven. And the fact that you are interpreting
the kingdom of heaven as earth does not mean that you have created a
second or alternate reality. You're just misinterpreting the only
reality there is. And causing it to be experienced by yourself as
something unlike the kingdom of heaven. So As you wake up. What you have
called heaven and earth won't pass away. The only thing that will pass
away is the misperception of reality that you have been entertaining.
They will not continue to exist as separate states. Everything that you
had been seeing incorrectly. Misinterpreting. will in effect apparently
become one with what it really is, uh, everything that you are seeing
presently. Through a glass darkly will seem to merge with reality. As
reality itself. And so they will not continue to exist as apparently
separate states. Again, the reason is that there never were to to begin
with. I want to stress this because It is so easy, as I've said before,
to say the world is an illusion. Well, the kingdom, as you are
perceiving it is an illusion. But the illusion is that you are seeing
reality. As though it were something else. It is very important to
understand this point. Because if you are not careful in calling the
world an illusion, You will be likely to deny the world. You will be
likely to withdraw your attention from it. Instead of keeping your
attention right there with the curiosity to see what it really is.


