---
 title: Helped through hate
 audiofn: Helped_through_hate
---

## {{page.title}}

perceived attack. is the only way you can see. Any part of the kingdom
of heaven when you're looking at it all by yourself. You will not
misperceive an attack where there is none. And you will see what is
really there. And the vision of what is really there that is provided to
you. will cause you to behave with love. In that direction Which is The
atonement You separate from it by withdrawing your attention from it and
redirecting your attention. To the altar within. To the Holy Spirit. To
me You arrive at a point where you say to yourself, It is less important
to me to defend myself against the attack. than to be in communion with
a brother. Whose spirit and presence will fill me with the experience of
my invulnerability. The experience of my divinity. The experience of my
utter safety. So that I might completely abandon. The use of fear. And
so that I might completely abandon. Any inclination To attack in defense
of myself. You see? So that then you might be. In a spontaneous inspired
frame of mind. To behave in a new way with this one you had seen as
attacking you. And if indeed this brother or sister who you had seen as
attacking you, if indeed he or she was behaving Out of fear as well.
Your benign presence. And the gift of love that you bring to him or her.
will lay the groundwork for them to Feel safe enough to abandon their
fear as well and have the situation transformed. It is utterly simple.
It only seems difficult. Because you are so convinced of the way you are
perceiving things. Having forgotten. That everything you perceive will
be perceived improperly. As long as you are looking at it. All alone.
Having your back to the altar. So no apparent threat that you
experience. is valid It is the inevitable result. Of having said,
Father, I'd rather look at it myself. Father, I would rather look at it
all by myself. Father, I'd rather look at it and determine for myself
what it is. In any situation where you think hate is being expressed.
You are wrong. Everything that's happening is either love or a call for
love. So when you see attack, What is really going on is a call for
love. What is really going on is a request. For someone to see that the
fear that is motivating the attack is invalid. And The desire To feel
and know that it is invalid. The behavior seems to call for defense. But
what will solve the problem of the apparent attack. Is a presence of
fearlessness. A presence of peace. The presence of love. That conveys
one way or another. that the behavior is not frightening. And therefore
your brother. It is not frightening. Even though he's behaving in a way.
That is attempting to engender fear. You deny it. And you go within. And
ask to be filled with The appropriate response. The appropriate response
to the call for love. In other words, the form of love. That will
completely obliterate the fear that has engendered. An aggressive act. A
show of hate. Anyone who is expressing hate. is experiencing a severe
lack of self-appreciation. of self-worth. A complete lack of his or her
Being lovable And the attack is A completely distorted way of saying
Look at me. I am better than I think I am. I am better than I think the
world thinks I am. I do not deserve to be suffering like this. But those
kinds of intelligent words aren't what come out. What comes out is
Hateful words expressed toward you. Dress with you. Slanders on your
character. But if you're able to stand there recognizing because you've
turned toward the altar, that this is a call for love. And you are at
the very least unmoved. By the behavior still in your piece. You have
conveyed silently. Something extremely important to the person in such a
great state of fear. That he would ask for help. Through an act of hate.
And that is That who he is And how he's feeling. And how he's behaving.
It is not disturbing to you. And therefore maybe Because you aren't
confirming his awfulness to him. Maybe There's another way to look at
himself. In which he isn't awful. And the moment a glimmer of that.
Occurs within him. He is able to abandon his commitment. To his
conviction. That he has justification for fear. And communication can
open. And when you continue to be the presence of calm, intelligence,
and love, And he feels your benignness. He's able to relax and you might
say warm up to you.

