---
 title: Holy Instant Threshold to Awakening
 audiofn: Holy_Instant_Threshold_to_Awakening
---

## {{page.title}}

The holy instant. How essential it is to awakening. How does one
nurture? The holy instant. How does one provide the environment in which
one can have the full experience of what the holy instant is? Now,
before every meeting. Paul engages in what is the nurturing of the holy
instant. What we've referred to as the two step. Before every gathering.
He always during the quiet time. He says to himself. And to God I allow
only. For that which expresses the Christ consciousness. And only that
which is in harmony with the purpose of being. The father's will. In
other words, Thy will not mine be done. Let the reign of divine truth,
life, and love be established in me. And rule out of me all self will.
And may thy word enrich the affections of all mankind. And govern them.
He has invited the father. The Christ To enrich his affections. By
abandoning the busyness of his own mind and his own reasoning and his
own thinking. All of which fall under the category of self-will. It's
the opposite of attentiveness. It's the opposite of listening. It's the
opposite of wanting to know the truth. So that when it becomes known, it
can be shared. So that the truth is what finds expression rather than
the misperceptions. And the delusions. That arise out of independent.
Logical Thinking processes. That we've identified as the orphan mindset.
Now The holy instant is very important. It's essential. To awakening. I
encourage you to join Paul in the act of shifting your attention away
from all that busies and occupies your mind. So that it can become
Attentive to the influx of wisdom and truth that spontaneously comes
when silence is present. And there is an inquisitive mind. What you're
interested in and experiencing is a holy instant. So let's use the
instant we're in as though there is something holy about it. And
approach it Soberly Not seriously. But in a grounded, sober, Fully open
manner. I want to ask something else. If everyone I abandoning self
will. If everyone is in effect saying, Father, thy will not mine be
done. Then You're obviously going to be abandoning. Expectations.
Concept of How things ought to be. I'm encouraging everyone to stay in
the nature of gift. And indeed Might that not be A more expansive way of
speaking about the holy instant. Because after all, The holy instant is
an event. In which a desire to make a gift is expressed. A willingness
to receive. is brought into play and when the receipt occurs, it is
given. And you know what, the gift comes from the voice for truth. It
doesn't come from the only other voice there is the voice for fear. In
the holy instant. The laws of God prevail, and only they have meaning.
In the orphan mindset. The kingdom of heaven is called the world and
universe, a physical entity. But what does it say? It's saying that the
kingdom of heaven, which all of this really is, is nothing more than
Matter Nothing more than a physical universe, something that has
absolutely nothing to do with an entity called God. Wow. In this frame
of mind, the laws of physics governing. And the laws of physics govern
absolutely. The laws of physics are not the laws of God. And when you
choose to see yourself as an orphan as an independent thinker. And one
who's proud to be one. You are bound by the laws of physics. But that's
not your birthright. The holy instant Is the threshold of escape from.
The physical universe. The binding misperception of the kingdom of
heaven in which you move into a different Arena, it would seem, in which
God's laws prevail and in which God's laws prevail absolutely. We're
talking about. Love We're talking about truth. We're talking about life.
We're talking about principle. Absolute love, truth, life principle.
Soul, spirit, mind. We're talking about unchangeable life, truth, love.
We're talking about The movement of that which is perfect. Which brings
forth the manifestation. Of perfection In other words, it brings forth
the visibility and tangibility of that movement. It's not something else
that gets created. It is the movement of God itself. It's visible and
tangible. And it has to be perfect. And these are the laws that are
governing absolutely every one of you and absolutely everything that
exists. But These laws won't seem to apply to you until you invite in
the holy instant and move into the arena in which they are the truth, in
which they are the facts. And there's nothing present to obscure them
from you. In the holy instant, the laws of God prevail, and only they
have meaning. The laws of this world, meaning the laws. Of physics The
laws that you have all made up based upon your tiny separated orphan
minded. Mentality. They ceased to hold any meaning at all. In other
words, they no longer govern you. Now mind you, The orphan mentality,
the independent. Self-centered Mentality Takes spirit, the substance of
all that God makes. It takes it and calls it matter. The laws of physics
refer to the way matter works. The holy instant brings you into a mental
frame of mind. A sane frame of mind in which spirit looks like spirit
once again. And in which spirit behaves like spirit once again. And
doesn't report back to you. Decay or Disease or Death. Or sickness. Or
distortion Or unnaturalness. Now I'm bringing this out because All of
you need to arrive at a point where you're using your mind with greater
clarity. So that you do not allow it to function in a way that
continues. To cause you to see spirit as matter. That which is eternal
life. Seen as that which is failing life. You are simply not. Definite
enough. In your use of your mind. Or your expectation of the experience
of your good. And so you allow your mind to function in slipshod ways.
Now The simple fact is, That your body Your world, your universe is all.
Constituted of the substance which is spirit. Gods stuff. God Himself
stuff. It therefore has no capacity. To embody or reflect or manifest
anything different from its source. If it is, It means that you have
decided to believe something else. You have decided to adopt the idea
that it is a physical universe governed by laws of physics, and you
allow suffering. To occur, or at least you allow a minimal amount of
suffering to occur. The least amount possible without you actually
having to have a total healing because of course a total healing. Isn't
embraced in the laws of physics, even though it is embraced in the laws
of God, which are available to you in the holy instant. And again, what
is the holy instant? It's you not being an orphan mentality. It's you
not using your mind in unconstructive ways. It's you abandoning the use
of your mind that blocks you from experiencing reality. The holy instant
is when you say, I allow only for that which is in harmony with the
Christ consciousness and only that which is in harmony with the purpose
of being, the Father's will. It's when you say to hell with all of my
fancy thoughts. To heck with all of my beliefs. To heck with whatever I
thought was right. I want to cast my anchor into The divine I want to
cast my anchor that drags me with it into the depths of God. I want To
expose myself. To the infiniteness of my right mind. Which is the mind
of God. And then you are very strict About not indulging in negativity.
Oh, it, it won't work out or oh I'm too old, it's a, it's too much for
me to expect this kind of regeneration and this kind of correction. Or
I'm too young and I can't expect to go through my teen years without
acne and without pimples and without all of the awkwardness. It's not
true. But these are the beliefs. That you Serve That you honor And they
are the way you avoid the holy instant. You avoid the holy instant by
making noise. Mental noise thinking thinking thinking worrying,
worrying, worrying, doubting doubting doubting. Suffer, suffer, suffer
from lack, lack, lack. This kind of busy goes on. And it seems justified
when it's happening. But Does it allow for the holy instant? Is there
room for anything else besides your determined perceptions? Or shall I
say, Do you have time for anything other than What's being expressed by
the voice for fear. No, you don't. Unless you make time. Well, I'm not
going to continue this. It's absolutely stupid. Why would I be active in
an arena where God's laws don't prevail or where his prevailing laws
don't register with me because I'm so conscientiously ignoring them.
Every day Should be a day in which The expectation of instantaneous
healing of this, that or the other thing. is not foreign to you, is not
absent from your awareness. And then Knowing what it takes. You should
get down to the business of what it takes, which is Choosing for your
piece. It means Monitoring The idiotic stream of thoughts. They keep you
bound so that you can say, no, I'm not going to accept the invitation to
go there. I'm gonna take a deep breath. Because I don't have to be
disturbed and I don't have to put on the behavior of disturbance. And I
am going to insist upon putting on the behavior. That provides the
environment in which the holy instant can occur where the laws of God
prevail. There's much to be. Enthusiastic about. Not anything that you
have power to do all by yourself. But experiences that will be available
to you when you abandon trying to do anything all by yourself. And you
say, Father, what is the truth here? Or you say Holy Spirit. Knowing
that you're addressing that which is nothing more than your right mind.
What is the truth here? Holy Spirit How do I see things? With you Show
me the way When the Son of God accepts the laws of God, as what he
gladly wills, It is impossible that he be bound or limited in any way.
That means that the sword disappears, the, the cracked elbow is
uncracked. The limp is nowhere to be found. The cancer is gone. The sore
throat Is replaced with pure comfort. If the holy instant doesn't mean
something worthwhile, Then Abandon it. But if it means something
worthwhile, which it does, take hold of it. And monitor your thoughts.
So that you can catch yourself when you are repeating the voice for
fear. How will you know when you're hearing the voice for fear, you'll
feel lousy. You'll feel depressed. You'll feel hopeless. Why? Not
because things are hopeless, but because a voice in your mind is
Repeating hopeless words, rehearsing hopeless words. Practicing
depressing attitudes. I'm expressing it this way or these ways. So that
you might find it reasonable. When you're doubting this or you're
depressed about that. To challenge it To not just let it steamroller
you. And the only thing that makes it seem to steamroller you is that
you acquiesce so completely to it. Because you're not saying no. You're
not saying I allow only. And that's all you have to do. You have to
start saying I allow only. As long as what you're only allowing is for
that which you haven't figured out. That which you haven't thought up.
That which you have not brought into existence through any independent
act whatsoever. If God is the only thing you're allowing. If your right
mind is the only thing you're allowing, You will wake up. You will
become unified again. You will become sane again. That's what it's all
about. Yeah Again, we must come back to this. Your body is an idea. Your
eyeball is an idea, your retina is an idea, your fingernail is an idea,
your toenail is an idea. Your kidney is an idea. These ideas. are held
in the mind of God. And are as eternal as the mind of God. Therefore,
They function according to the laws of mind. And the laws of mind are
not made up They're not fabricated through the use of imagination. All
ideas. are constituted of the substance of spirit. Love Is the nature of
the substance of spirit. And so every bit of substance that you have any
experience of. is an experience of an idea. And this is very important
Because until you Begin to embrace this as a possibility, you will
continue to look at things that are actually ideas as though they are
objects. Matter which operate according to laws of physics. And that
they are subject to Decay And there are arrangements are subject to
disintegration. Which you call death. Or disease and so on. So,
Everything here is being translated back into mind. It becomes much
easier when you see things as ideas. To grasp that as ideas and not
hunks of matter, they can have the flexibility to order themselves
according to the laws of God. And thereby You experience instantaneous
healing. Instantaneous healing. Not subject to time. Or laws of physics.
So your eyeballs and your toenails and your knee sockets. They're all
ideas. Subject to the way the mind works that. Brought forth the idea
Perfectly, in other words. Hip sockets are therefore of the mind, and
their conditions are in the mind with it. When you step across the
threshold of the holy instant where the laws of God prevail. This is the
kind of thing you're faced with. Because you are only an idea and
nothing else, you can be and will be in full communication with all that
ever was. Yet As long as you prefer to be something else, like a cute
little orphan. Or would attempt to be nothing else and something else.
That would be where you are trying to be the holy Son of God and an
orphan at the same time. Yet as long as you prefer to be something else
or would attempt to be nothing else and something else together. The
language of communication. Which you know perfectly you will not
remember. The language of communication is the way you experience.
Uninterrupted And indivisible conscious awareness of absolutely
everything of all creation. And it knows you. So that there is this
ceaseless. Full conscious awareness. Of everything, by everything. This
is part of what awaits you in the holy instant where The laws of God
prevail. Again, Your prized independence is costing you everything. It's
costing you instantaneous healings. It's costing you. The experience of
invulnerability, meaning absolute fearlessness. Here's the simplicity of
it. You wake up through the proper use of time. Using time for its
purpose, and its purpose is for you to be experiencing peace. The
absence of anxiety. If you're not experiencing it, Then you're engaged
in something that is creating its opposite, and all you have to do is
stop. You have to decide right then and there. That It's worth more to
you to be sane. It's worth more to you To be able to move into the holy
instant where the laws of God prevail. Because you'd much rather. Be
happy and whole and healthy and comfortable. Than what you've got right
now. And then As much as your ego says it's totally crazy. Choose for
your peace. Move into it. Abandon what is not peaceful. And then in that
sanctuary of quietness, invite God in. Father, what is the truth here?
Father Revealed to me an instantaneous healing. Father, show me what
needs to be done. And then expect an answer. Persist in listening. Until
you have the answer. Persist in not inserting yourself into the equation
until you have the answer. Stop letting the voice for fear as it comes
through the media. Teach you Rejected as a teacher. And then do the
absolutely crazy thing of leaning into the Holy Spirit in you. With an
intent to rely upon it. Because then you will be beginning to rely upon
The integrity of your being. Which will strengthen it. By bringing it
forth.

