---
 title: Holy Spirit
 audiofn: Holy_Spirit
---

## {{page.title}}

Now I've said before, That when you chose To make up your own
definitions when you chose to think for yourself, unquote independent of
the Father. And in so doing, denied your identity. denied what you were
as the direct expression and presence of God. You couldn't alter what
you divinely are. And so the part of you that you denied. Remained In
place unaltered but ignored by you and at that moment. The Holy Spirit
came into existence. And I've said that the Holy Spirit is your divinity
held in trust while you dally with the ego. Now this reference to the
Holy Trinity. is not only an accommodation to Christian theology. It
does express the way creation appears when you've turned your back on
the Father. And have defined everything in your own terms. Because there
is the Father. There is the sun, you, each one of you. As an ignorant.
travesty you might say, of what you truly are, and The ignored presence
of what you truly are. Which is the Holy Spirit. What you truly are
serves the Father. That's, that's the difficulty in waking up is that
you don't want to yield to the Father, you want to express your own
will. And so the Holy Spirit. Your divinity. is always functioning in a
nurturing, nudging, supporting way. to cause you To stop using such a
narrow vision. When what's confronting you is infinity, reality. And
it's always serving the Father. And by serving the Father on your behalf
because you are it. It is constantly Engaged in promoting your movement
back into your wholeness. And this is why it can be said that the Holy
Spirit Can turn every situation to your advantage. Now When you come
back home, And you let yourself be. God expressed. You let God be. All
the only thing going on where you are. On God's terms. Then you become
his sane son, his sane daughter. His sane expression. And there will no
longer be the Holy Spirit. There will be mined with a capital M and its
idea. There will be the creator. And his creation. And as I've said
before, Mind moves. And recognizes itself. And that recognition.
Consummates the total movement of being that is creation. In other
words, There isn't cause and effect. There's cause and event. And the
event is cause. Seen and recognized. Mind moves. Recognizes itself. And
that constitutes self-consciousness. Mind Moving mind being conscious is
the event. So the two are 1. Father and the son. are one As an
experience. So the time will come when there will no longer be a
trinity. And your experience of being will be God's experience. Of being
all there is of being all. With no aspect of its infinity. Unavailable
to you. And where you experience your utter oneness with it all. Which
would mean experiencing your utter oneness with each other and
experiencing your utter oneness with What you call the universe. All of
creation. Consciously


