---
 title: I Authorize My Body
 audiofn: I_Authorize_My_Body
---

## {{page.title}}

I authorize. My body to release. Whatever is not necessary. To its
perfect functioning. And I withdraw any prior conscious or unconscious
authorization to the contrary. I authorize my body to release whatever
is not necessary to its perfect functioning. And I withdraw any prior
conscious or unconscious authorization to the contrary. This statement
is not for the purpose of putting you in a position of power. It is
rather a matter of bringing your thinking into alignment with what's
already established as the function of your body. It is the purpose of
your body to identify the presence of your individuality perfectly. That
is its function. And so when you authorize it to release whatever isn't
necessary to its perfect functioning, you are giving permission for it
to do what it is already its function to do. What you're doing is
saying, I'm willing to bring my thinking into alignment with the way
things already really work. And then when you say, and I withdraw any
prior conscious or unconscious authorization to the contrary. You are
releasing any residual fears or Height of your body, anything that would
tend to get in the way of your experiencing your body perfectly. I
authorize. My body to release. Whatever is not necessary. To its perfect
functioning. And I withdraw any prior conscious or unconscious
authorization to the contrary. I authorize my body to release whatever
is not necessary to its perfect functioning. And I withdraw any prior
conscious or unconscious authorization to the contrary. Whether it's a
feeling that comes over you. Or a negative attitude that just seems to
pop in, or a pain in your side. Whatever it is, However it presents
itself. It's an invitation. Not a declaration. A pain in the side is not
a declaration of a fact that you're ill. It's an invitation to believe.
That you're ill, or that there is an actual physical problem in a
physical body that orphans have because they're just mortals. And you've
got to challenge that when it happens. And decline the invitation. First
of all, Be willing to acknowledge that it is not a declaration of a
fact. It's an invitation to believe something. And then decline the
invitation. I authorize my body to release. Whatever is not necessary to
its perfect functioning. And I withdraw any prior conscious or
unconscious authorization to the contrary. I authorize my body to
release whatever is not necessary to its perfect functioning. And I
withdraw any prior conscious or unconscious authorization to the
contrary.


