---
 title: Illegitimacy of disease
 audiofn: Illegitimacy_of_disease
---

## {{page.title}}

First of all, There's nothing in the 3 dimensional frame of reference
that isn't present in the 4th dimension. What's in the third dimension
is not an illusion. When it is seen exclusive of the 4th. There is
misapprehension. There is misunderstanding. There is misperception. Yes.
Disease is an illusion. The conscious intent. To demonstrate that
disease can't kill you. That disease can't be relieved. arises out of A
deep I'm going to say divine recognition of the illegitimacy of disease.
And that is what any good physician Does He stands there. With the
intent. To demonstrate the illegitimacy of disease. That is not an
illusion, that is love. I want you to consider what I told the gentleman
earlier about body and that its intent is to identify you perfectly,
which means its intent is not to embody anything that doesn't represent
you or identify you perfectly. So I want you to praise and appreciate
your body for that. And expect a miracle. Without discounting the fact
that a surgical removal. Of that which doesn't identify you perfectly.
is a form of miracle. Where does the intelligence come from for the
surgeon? To do his work. That doesn't mean that the surgeon. Clearly
recognizes that God is all there is to you, but nevertheless, His intent
to demonstrate The illegitimacy of anything that doesn't represent you
is that the bottom line. A divinely inspired. For lack of better words,
gut level instinct. That he's willing to act upon and challenge. The
apparent status quo of mortal existence.

