---
 title: Illumination
 audiofn: Illumination
---

## {{page.title}}

In moments of illumination and experience that awaits you is for a
darkened room to be illuminated by the light of you literally. The body
of light that you are. And the light That is the substance of everything
in the room. You right here in this quote incarnation, unquote without
having ascended. The energy That you see as the form of your body is
pure light even though you can't see it at the moment. I can see that
this room is illuminated far more brightly than the lights display at
the moment. Just from the light of you right now, it's shining. It isn't
out. You haven't snuffed it. Even though you're not seeing it. That's
the more of you that's right here now. To be experienced if you'll be
curious. It's happening right now. But you all have a nice little
mutually agreed definition of yourselves that is that you're just um You
know, just human beings doing the best you can, struggling along and
trying to refine your souls and spiritualize yourselves, um. And you're
managing to be Pretty far out. I mean You're talking with Jesus. And
this is excellent because To whatever degree you let yourself be far out
and yet still remain grounded. You make it possible to let go even more.
And have Experiences of light illumination. And when you pray When you
ask the father to show you something. Ask him to show you a lot. Don't
ask for just a little bit. Ask him to reveal the maximum that you can
bear. Ask him to reveal the last thing in the world you would expect to
experience.

