---
 title: Im here to help
 audiofn: Im_here_to_help
---

## {{page.title}}

Willingness Just willingness. Just willingness to be with me. Just
willingness to let me be present with you. I'm not here as an authority
over you. I'm not here to be your boss. I'm not here to Tell you what to
do. I'm not here to enforce anything. I'm here to help you. Feel more
comfortable. About being divine. I'm here to help you feel more
comfortable in the middle of the kingdom of heaven. I'm here to help you
feel safe enough and comfortable enough to Dare to look at things
differently. With the option of actually seeing things transformed. I'm
here to help you. Pay attention to life. Without your having the feeling
that you must be personally responsible for. What unfolds And to feel
comfortable in abandoning The call for self responsibility. So that you
might then experience the comfort of observing God already being all of
it perfectly. I'm here to help you feel comfortable not being in charge.
I'm here to be your friend. Indeed. I'm here to companion with you. It
will be a lot more fun. A lot more pleasurable if you let me be your
friend. No matter how much you try to Put me In some position of
authority over you, you will find my behavior not. Cooperating with
that. I'm not here The Holy Spirit isn't here. God isn't here. To help
you become equal. To the tragedies of the dream. Or to become equal to
the horror of the illusion. But to help you realize that it is an
illusion that doesn't call for any response at all except disregard. I
once told someone who had a bust of me on a pedestal. That she needed, I
told her to put a sign on it, a card that says. If you haven't seen
yourself in me. You haven't seen me. It is obvious to me that we are
recognizably brothers. What can I do?

