---
 title: Impersonal miracle
 audiofn: Impersonal_miracle
---

## {{page.title}}

When you are the medium of a miracle. Then you are the one extending it.
But not the one who decided where it was to be extended. Therefore, you
cannot experience any sense of authorship. Now you become involved in a
miracle. Which you can claim no personal responsibility for and to be
involved in a miracle that you're not responsible for. Is what an
impersonal miracle feels like. It's one where you are involved, but you
can't take credit for it. This is one of the reasons there aren't a lot
of miracles. Because it leaves the ego entirely out of the picture. The
ego says, can't get no satisfaction. The impersonal nature of the
miracle is an essential ingredient. One of the reasons it's essential is
because Because a miracle can't happen until you join with something
other than yourself. A miracle can't happen until you stop insisting
upon being an independent authorizer. Which is exactly the cause of what
you call the human condition, all the suffering. And all the excitement,
but awakening begins when you arrive at a point of reaching out beyond
your best judgments and your best theories and So on And you ask for
help, you reach out and open up to join with something else. So it's an
essential ingredient of the miracle. Why? Because it enables me to
direct its application. Because it, it enables a joint effort, a mutual
commitment, and Under my guidance, miracles lead to the highly personal
experience of revelation. Revelation being the direct communication of
God with you and you alone. Except that in the experience of that. Quote
private communication, unquote, you become joined with the whole
brotherhood. And privacy ceases.

