---
 title: In touch
 audiofn: In_touch
---

## {{page.title}}

To be in touch with your integrity, to have turned around to the altar.
To gather the facts of your being. From the flame in the middle of the
altar, that is the energy and spirit of God being, all there is of you
right now. You end up Not so much going against the grain of the
mutually agreed upon definitions. You end up Being in a way that doesn't
provide challenge. But does provide illumination of new potentialities.
And new possibilities that can engage the attention of those. Who are
themselves bound by and miserable in the middle of The mutually agreed
upon definitions. You will really only run into attack, let us say,
retaliation from those who feel that they have. Some God-given right. To
exercise control over you. But the majority of the people in your daily
life do not feel that they have that right, and so They looked more with
curiosity. than anything else. It's those who Well, Our family Who think
they are living in agreed upon definitions of what a family is and what
rights family members have, etc. who will perhaps Attempt to Exert
authority. Against you But truly the only place you're going to run into
retaliation is from those who feel they have a right. To tell you how to
be. And that's not the majority of the world. And for the majority of
the world. Your being in sync. With your divine function. will be more a
presence of Interesting potentials than Threat To those you engage with.
In the first place, you will, you will be being in a more benign way
because you aren't trying to cram your particular new point of view down
their throats. Because that's not what you do when you're in touch with
your function.

