---
 title: In th middle of the ultimate
 audiofn: In_th_middle_of_the_ultimate
---

## {{page.title}}

Contrary to what you might think. You right now are in the middle of the
ultimate. Not working toward it. Not even outside the loop as it were.
And therefore lost. You can call the ultimate reality or the kingdom of
heaven, whatever you like, but the ultimate, ultimate that you envision
that there might be. is what you're in the middle of right now. It's
what everyone is in the middle of right now. And instead of assuming
that all the definitions you have for everything are true, Be willing to
assume that maybe none of the definitions are true. And that everything
you are experiencing is more than you think it is. Actually of an
ultimate nature, whether it's a leaf or a fingernail or a strand of hair
or a body or whatever. And begin to practice curiosity, together with a
willingness to have an experience of revelation or of insight about
anything and everything that you've been familiar with. So that you have
a new experience of it that is a closer approximation of reality. So
many of mankind. Look at what they're experiencing. And they call it
this lifetime. Or something other than the ultimate. And It's after they
die that they go to heaven. And they'd practiced no curiosity here. I've
said before that you, meaning all of you, but you are neither behind the
point of perfection nor advancing toward it. You're at that point and
must understand yourself therefrom. So you need to be curious to Be open
to a fuller experience of what you ultimately are because what you
ultimately are is right there. And the experience of it is only blocked
by definitions, lesser definitions that you're giving it. That you're
giving yourself. So curiosity is the key. Together with Even um Just an
assumption. That there might be more to everything than you're
experiencing. It doesn't even have to be a confidence that there's more
to everything. And if you walk forward with that alone, it can change
everything for you. It isn't a matter of denying everything or anything,
but of being curious to see the more of what it divinely is than you're
currently seeing. Because just maybe there is more. Of what it divinely
is sitting there right in front of you to experience.


