---
 title: Incompetence
 audiofn: Incompetence
---

## {{page.title}}

Suddenly we're talking about darkness and escaping. Without any
preamble. But it is intelligent because Darkness is the place from which
you begin your journey home. But what is darkness. Darkness Darkness is
the place where you hide. Your most fearful secret. From yourself. and
everyone else. And what you've hidden there. Is what you discover when
you arrive at the bottom of the barrel. In your life experience. It's
called darkness because It is the place you have chosen to ignore. It is
the place where you have refused to bring your attention. And you could
say therefore the light of you. And what is this? Most fearful secret.
That you hide from yourself and everyone else. It is that you're not in
charge of anything. It is that you don't have the answer. It is most
succinctly put. The awareness that you are truly incompetent. Now it
happens. That this is the utter truth. You on your own. Separated from
your source are absolutely incompetent. Now the barrel that you finally
end up finding yourself at the bottom of. is filled with all of the
techniques you have developed. To cover up the fact that you're
incompetent. You have filled it up with Wild imaginations. As to your
ability and your skill and your Capacity to think intelligently and
reasonably. And therefore demonstrate that you do have control. That you
are competent. The reason you all ultimately end up at the end of the at
the bottom of the barrel is because. You can't really pull off the lie.
You can't really prove your competence. And As time goes by, as your
life passes by, you could say. You lose the rev for proving your
capacity. You lose the The vigor That you had so easily brought to
Proving your competency. And making your mark in the world. And You have
had successive experiences. that have demonstrated to you that no matter
how hard you've tried, You haven't succeeded. At really demonstrating
your competency. Mind you, All of what you filled the barrel with. To
cover up your incompetency. Involved mutually agreed upon definitions
with others. Who were also engaged in filling their barrel with their
competencies and their skills and um And the reason there was so much
sparring that went on, so much warring that went on, was because part of
what was involved in demonstrating your competency was improving your
superiority to others who were trying to demonstrate their competency.
You see, Well, sooner or later, and it's better if it's sooner. You come
to the point where The war gets tiring, the lack of fulfillment of
expectations. dampens your spirit. Your will to be independent. And a
little bit of honesty begins to percolate into your awareness. You
decide that struggle isn't worth it. And as you let go of the struggle
and sink to the bottom of the barrel. Deeper into the darkness. You
finally come to the point where you Recognize That you're powerless.
That you are incompetent. That you can't control anything. And since you
Have come to the bottom of the barrel through all of the ego structures
you have created. The ego looks at your realization. And says you're a
failure. It says there's no reason to live. And If you stay in the ego.
Perspective. For very long as you are observing. The truth about you.
The ego will distract you from succumbing to the truth about yourself
and accepting it. And it will say There's one last thing you can do. To
demonstrate that you have control. Even though you're a total failure.
And that is You can do yourself in by your own hand. You can You can
kill yourself instead of. Dying naturally. Into The blessing, it doesn't
say this, but the blessing that awaits you in your acceptance of The
truth of this deep dark secret. That you on your own are totally
incompetent. This last act. That the ego suggests. is a last attempt at
control. Which you have to be willing to Dishonor because When you
arrive at a point. Of feeling the fact. That you are not competent on
your own. And you accept it and don't fight against it by engaging in a
final act of suicide. You discover An incredible thing. Peace Why?
Because now, You don't have to go to all the effort. You had been going
to. To present this false front of competency. There is great peace. In
being able to say I can't do this. I can't do that. I can't live up to
your expectations. I can't live up to the expectations I have placed
upon myself that I accepted from my parents. I can't be something I'm
not. I don't even want to be something I'm not any longer. This
constitutes a great release. And in that release comes a joy welling up.
Together with an awareness. About yourself. That In your incompetency as
a separated independent individuality. You're quite holy. You're quite
whole. This is the truth. That was hidden in the darkness. Hidden out of
sight. In that place you chose to ignore. And this is the beginning of
awakening. This is the beginning of the return to your sanity. Your
whole mindedness, you might say. Not fractured. By Insane attempts to
prove that you are independent. And competent in your independence.

