---
 title: Independence
 audiofn: Independence
---

## {{page.title}}

I just want to put a bug in your ear before we start to Go into your
questions. In the United States you have just celebrated Independence
Day. And the celebration is of having gained independence. But what I'm
wondering is, How many of you took The 4th of July as An opportunity to
grant someone independence. The attention is always on getting
independence. And yet Each one of you Has concepts about Loved ones,
friends. Family Enemies And you hold them. To your concept of them. In
effect, you hold them hostage. And even if they are willing to change,
even if they are changing, Even if they have changed. And are no longer
behaving according to the concepts you're holding of them. You insist on
continuing to see them the way you always saw them. And in effect make
it extremely difficult for them to be with you. Reflecting the changes
that they have made in themselves. And so You keep them in bondage to
Whatever your current perception of them is. So not one of you who is
hearing my voice at the moment. Not one of you. lacks the opportunity to
grant someone else independence from the concept you are holding about
them. You know, um, the United States gained independence from England.
England had to grant independence. To the United States. Each of you
must grant independence. To your fellow man. And you should have If you
are a citizen of the United States, A real feeling for the significance
of having independence. And therefore it should make sense to you that
it is important for those in your lives to have independence from
Whatever limited perception you would be holding them to, and there
should be a glad willingness to grant them. Independence Now there's
another aspect. In a larger sense. That needs to be looked at. And that
is that The human condition, the miasma of, of the human experience,
the, the suffering, the terrorism, the sickness, the death, all of the
turmoil of human existence. Exists for you because you have claimed
independence from your source. You have claimed independence from God.
You have all at some point said, God, I'd rather see it my way. I would
rather abandon your perspective of creation. And see it in a smaller
tinier. Less generous manner. I would like to define everything that you
have already defined as creation with the bias that I want to give it. I
want to like orchids better than dandelions. I want to like willow trees
better than pine trees. I'll still like pine trees, but I want to have
favorites. I want to like so and so better than so and so. I want to
have special friends, and then I want to have acquaintances, and then
I'll let the rest be strangers. You see And in your choice not to see
with God's vision, which is your birthright to be experiencing
everything with. You have created, like I said, a tinier, more limited,
less generous viewpoint, and your viewpoint has caused creation to
appear to be unlike God's expression. And In the absence of the larger
view, you found yourself feeling tiny instead of infinite. And in your
tininess you began to feel vulnerable. And in your vulnerability you
began to feel the need for defense. And you brought into play
opposition. And ultimately what you are defending yourself against is
the presence of God, the parts of the presence of God that you decided
you didn't want to be your most favorite parts. So as I said, I just, I
just wanted to put a bug in your ear. You need to give your attention to
releasing others from the Concepts you are holding them to. And truly
grant them independence. And you also need to know. That the father is
more than willing. In fact, the very presence of the Father is a
standing invitation to you to abandon your independence from him. So
that you might make room. For his perspective, in your mind, which is
the only thing that is supposed to be there in your mind. And in so
doing regain The infinite view that it's your birthright to be
experiencing. Where nothing is any longer being excluded in any way,
shape, or form. And so that you can feel your oneness with it. Now, the
steps to coming back home into your right mind. Begin with Granting your
brother. Independence from The concepts you are holding him or her to.
It starts with you looking at your brother and beginning to witness for
your brother on his behalf in his favor. And in order to do that, you've
got to abandon whatever your current concept of them is. Because until
you can remember how to love your brother. You're not going to be able
to remember how to experience God. As the very presence of you. There
has to be an act of love. That you express to your brother and sister.
And in that act of extension, As I said, you make room for the father's
perspective to enter you. And that blesses you and that blesses your
brother. So think about this word independence a little more clearly
than you may have before. The interesting thing is that when you claim
independence from God, You automatically at some point. have to make
other things dependent on you. They become your dependents. I'm not
going to elaborate on that. I just want that to sit in your mind to
percolate. And so part of the undoing of your claiming independence from
God is to grant those who have made dependent their freedom. And you
grant them their freedom by beginning to open up to what is the truth,
the real truth about them. Acknowledging it, honoring it. Appreciating
those who have changed and grown that you hadn't let off the hook. As
well as appreciating those who Still have growing to do. And by
acknowledging what they would see as their potential, but you recognize
to be the truth about them. You give them support for change. Rather
than promoting further defense on their part.

