---
 title: Infinite intimacy
 audiofn: Infinite_intimacy
---

## {{page.title}}

Duality is something which steals something from you. It takes away your
capacity to see unity where unity is. Oneness where oneness is. But you
must understand. That the oneness of God is infinite. It's the infinite
experience of divine ideas. Because That which is responsible. For your
existence. is an infinite mind. In order for that infinite mind. To be
conscious, it must be conscious of something. The moment the infinite
mind of God came into existence, there was instantaneously. That which
provided the experience of being conscious. In other words, creation.
Except there was never a beginning. To God So creation is An infinite
Experience of diversity. And yet it's all one. And every atom, if you
will, every, every point of the energy of spirit in creation. Recognizes
itself in every other. Point of divine energy that constitutes creation.
When you recognize a Connection. With another Where the two of you seem
to be like one, whether it's a lover or whether it's a best friend where
you recognize yourself in them. You see what I'm saying? You're not
estranged from them. They are not strangers to you. That's just a little
taste of what I'm talking about. The two of you don't disappear. But You
feel no peculiar differences between you. The gift of love to another.
The willingness to lower your shield, your defenses in order to extend
love to another. In order to reduce Their feeling that they must be
defended against you. is the very means you have. To break The sense or
the experience of duality, me and not me. So that you and your brother
or your sister have the opportunity to recognize yourselves in each
other. Because you're not withholding yourselves from each other. And in
that There is the Experience of connection and sharing. That doesn't
call for any defense whatsoever. So the infiniteness of creation. will
not disappear into one. undifferentiated. Something or other The
infiniteness of creation. Will consciously share its oneness with every
other part of the infiniteness of creation. And this is an experience of
intimacy that you cannot even conceive at the moment. But it awaits you.
If you will just begin to be curious to see the more of what is there
when you look at a glass. Or you look at a brother or you look at a
sister. Or you look at a parent who's not your parent at all but a
brother or a sister also.

