---
 title: Invitation to God
 audiofn: Invitation_to_God
---

## {{page.title}}

Do you think you could dare to expect? Total healing From a terminal
illness Or an injury For no good reason right now. Just because Just
because it's your birthright. And there is Because of your birthright,
absolutely no justification for you to be experiencing the injury or the
illness. Any longer If you don't think that that's your birthright to be
experiencing at this moment, Then you have renounced the love of God.
You are denying the father's love. You wouldn't say he denied you your
good. But you will say you have no justification for expecting
unequivocally. That you can be healed at this moment because God is your
source, the center and circumference. The primitive and ultimate of you.
Hey, If you think that you can find a way to behave with your brothers.
And sisters so that great harmony is brought forth. Without your
Experiencing the father's perspective. In other words, without your
being sane. Then what you're experiencing is hell. It is insanity. Very
simply, Here's where logic can help you. Because the moment it becomes
obvious to you that To not be able to expect to be healed
instantaneously. And then not to be healed instantaneously. Is the
result of your insanity. And your insanity is constituted of Your belief
That you can be an independent agent with a perspective and viewpoint
all your own. You won't be in a position to say I want nothing to do
with that perspective any more. It is insane, and I'm going to abandon
it. And I'm going to abandon it by doing something very specific. I'm
going to do the two-step, where something that happens, and the first
step is that you step back before you respond. And the second step is to
ask God what needs to be known here, or to ask your guide or the Holy
Spirit. And I'm going to practice the holy instant. I'm going to become
still. And I'm going to abandon my independence and say, Father, Mother
What is the truth here? And I will not abandon that quest, that
question. I will not abandon it until I've heard the answer. Because
That is when I will be experiencing my sanity. And I will tell you. That
when you're experiencing your sanity, you will also experience healing.
A choice has to be made. A conscious choice has to be made. A choice
wherein you come to the same conclusion. That the practice of awareness.
That doesn't bring into it. God's perspective. is a self-inflicted
insanity. That isn't actual But might as well be. Until you change your
mind. Only then will you be in a position. To change your mind, to make
the choice and begin. To constantly Bring the father into your
experience by saying, Father, what is the truth here? What is the truth
about what's in front of me that I've seen every day for 30 years? And
that I thought I knew the meaning of what's the real meaning of it,
because I know that to me it doesn't represent the kingdom of heaven,
and yet I'm told and I believe that it is the kingdom of heaven. And I
want to experience it truly. Help me, I want to have the experience, the
experience of your perspective. I We'll let you in. I am inviting you
in. And I will leave the invitation actively open until I have the
experience. You always do what you value. And if you're not listening
for the father's perspective, it's because you're valuing something
else, and what you're valuing is your perspective. Start valuing And
employing And magnifying. Your desire To know the truth. The father's
truth, the father's perspective. You may not think that I've given you
anything practical to do or shared anything that you can use. But I will
tell you that I have knocked down some false idols in every single one
of your perceptions. And you have been changed by what I've said. And
the changes that have occurred. will cause you to perceive everything.
In new ways Without your having to try to make those new ways. Happen
And so I encourage you to enjoy this coming week. With the changed
perceptions. That you're going to be experiencing. I love you all.


