---
 title: Invulnerability
 audiofn: Invulnerability
---

## {{page.title}}

Before the separation, the mind was invulnerable to fear. Because fear
did not exist. Interesting Because fear did not exist, it was
invulnerable to fear. How can you be invulnerable to something that
doesn't exist? It is put this way. So that you might grasp. That
invulnerability regained. Will not be some ultimate form of defense.
that nothing can stand up to successfully. The invulnerability. That
your willingness to become defenseless. will uncover to you. will be an
invulnerability that doesn't Require power. To keep you safe. We must
talk about invulnerability. Because from your present frame of reference
you feel vulnerable and you feel that the vulnerability is part of the
human condition and is unavoidable. From the ego's vantage point,
invulnerability must be the result of a good defense. And so it's
natural to assume. That as you Move forward in your awakening. Your
divine invulnerability. will be some form of ultimate defense. But it
isn't. You are invulnerable. Because in the absence Of the choice for
defense. That which you appeared to need defense against. Undergoes an
alteration in your mind. A sudden shift of perception. That allows you
to see what is truly there. And be infilled with appreciation for what
is truly there. And thus engage in the atonement. Which will transform.
The world And you will come to an experiential appreciation of the
meaning of the statement in my defenselessness, my safety lies. In my
defenselessness my invulnerability lies. In my defenselessness, I am
refusing to be In a polarized state of mind. And in the absence of
polarities, I am unable to see conflict. And in my inability to see
conflict. The presence of God can become obvious to me. And I can
rejoice. At the saint Who I thought was My irritating brother. And you
know what, When you're not seeing an irritating brother there because
you truly are seeing the saint that he is, the presence of God that he
is, your bristles, your hackles, your Quils Lay down And you are no
longer threatening. To your brother And the genuineness of your
benignness can be recognized by your brother. So that he can say Wow, I
never thought he would. relax so that we could just relate with each
other. And he will dare to relate with you. In a new way Because you
dared to let your affections be enriched. Spiritual sight. Cannot see
the structure at all. Because it is perfect vision, spiritual sight is.
It can, however, see the altar with perfect clarity. And seeing the
altar in your brother. Seeing your brother's heart. Allows you to Watch
with him a moment, be with him a moment. Well, he thinks he's on his way
to his crucifixion. You need to stand with each other. You need to be
with others affectionately. With warmth, with defenselessness. And the
only thing that will allow you to do that. is if you're willing to look
at your brother. With someone who is awake. Who can illuminate to you.
The loveliness Of the bench. Or the loveliness of the bastard. And the
lovableness. Of them both. and illuminate your capacity. To love them
right then and there. So that it's embodied.

