---
 title: Its all about Gift
 audiofn: Its_all_about_Gift
---

## {{page.title}}

Everyone will have to participate. In the fat. That it's all about gift.
It's all about giving. It's all about extending. It's the Father's good
pleasure to give you, extend to you. The kingdom All that is. If that's
the way the father works, that's the way being works. If that's the way
being existing works. That's the way each of you works. That is the
nature. Of your being When one tries to act on one's own. One
spontaneously behaves defensively. And one Gets into the mode of
getting, acquiring, possessing, and then protecting. One's possessions.
The exact opposite. Of gift The exact opposite of extension. The exact
opposite of Love The exact opposite of Caring I am talking about this
because This is what needs to be addressed. It addresses a basic
attitude. That is immobilizing. To the experience of the influx of Hall
For absolutely everyone who isn't awake. And I'm not addressing The
problem I'm addressing. The solution I'm giving voice to the answer. The
answer for everyone. Because the simple fact is that as each of you take
the essential step. Of shifting from getting to giving. You do two
things. You become first of all an agent for change in the world. And
contribute significantly thereby. To The evidence of atonement in the
world. And the second thing is That that change which you become the
agent of is a result of You're fulfilling your function. To glorify God.
By being like him. Instead of trying so hard to be different from him.
And this brings you back into the fulfillment of your function. And this
is what awakening is about. In practical nitty gritty down to earth
terms. Where what's down to earth. becomes transformed before your eyes.
And you begin to see the evidence of heaven. Where you sense of
separation had created a distorted Experience That has nothing to do
with God at all. Shifting from getting to giving. is the only answer. It
is the only thing. That will dissolve. The experience of hell and high
water.

