---
 title: Its not up to you
 audiofn: Its_not_up_to_you
---

## {{page.title}}

So the answer to the dilemma of the human condition. Only God can
establish. Such simplicity Let it sink in. It's not up to you. You can't
do it. You never were supposed to be able to do it. And you can't do the
impossible. Accept it. And let go of the false sense of responsibility
that somehow you are supposed to be able to do the impossible. That is
the suggestion that the ego provides you with. It's the taunt, it's the
tease. It's the bait. Of course you can do the impossible. God gave you
a mind of your own. God gave you the ability to think. God gave you the
ability to reason. There must have been a reason that he gave you this.
Well, God didn't give you a mind. God didn't even create you separate
from Himself. You are a mind. You're not a body with a mind. You're a
mind in which. There is the experience of body. And glass top table and
sweet peas and trees and fingernails and everything, a universe. You are
a mind. You don't have a mind. You are consciousness. You don't have a
consciousness. You are mind. You aren't something separate from mind
that can use mind for purposes of your own. You are a mind. Only God can
establish the solution. So The only task you have in front of you is to
yield to God. That's the only intelligent at. that you can engage in. As
long as you are In an illusory experience which has been caused by your
decision to act on your own or to attempt to act on your own or to fool
yourself into believing. That you can Again, this is where the utter
simplicity of the answer lies. There isn't any other option. And the
option is utterly simple. Stop trying to be something. Give up Because
when you give up the capital S something that you are, that which you
divinely are will fill you up. Your memory will return of what you
divinely are. And you will come into the fullness of your being. And the
joy of being. And the only difference there will be is that you will not
be able to say. I'm a self-made wonderful being. I'm a self-made,
incredibly divine being. But when you are. An incredibly wonderful
divine being. It doesn't make any difference whether you're able to
claim personal responsibility for it or not. Because you are sane once
again. Only God can establish this solution. And this faith is his gift.

