---
 title: Justice needs a voice
 audiofn: Justice_needs_a_voice
---

## {{page.title}}

Witnessing for your brother or sister. Means being willing to come up
and be counted. To put your commitment on the line and let it be known.
And the reformation that needs to happen can happen without violence.
But people are going to have to stand up and be counted. And let their
voice be heard on behalf of justice what you feel. is not anger. It's a
clear sense of what justice is. And what justice is needs to have a
voice. And it wants to emerge from you. If you mistake it for anger.
Then what justice is won't emerge. Violence is what will emerge. In the
willingness to put it out there. It travels And it gets where it needs
to go, and you can't afford to be discouraged because everyone isn't
hearing it yet. Your love counts. When you're willing to step up. On
behalf of your brother. On behalf of all that is the best in him. No
matter how much of the worst there seems to be. You very often find out
that you've bitten off more than you think you can chew. And arguments
come to you that you were unwise. I'll tell you something, when that
happens, all that's happening is that the borders of your tent are being
stretched. Oh, I didn't know it was going to mean this much. What you
didn't know that it was going to mean. That you would be in a position
of discovering your greater capacity to be loved than you thought you
had. Well, that's all it is. You're discovering your greater capacity to
be loved than you thought you had. And this is good news. But the
discovery of it. Isn't always pleasant. Because you would like love to
be magic. You got to walk with them. You gotta go further than you
thought. Because they're worth it. And you're worth it and somebody
needs to dare to walk with you too. Oh God, don't tell me that. And I've
got to do all of this to wake up. If you want things to be better,
you've got to be better than you've been being. What I'm telling you is
that you have the capacity to be better. You are better than you are
being. The capacity to express it is already in you. But you've got to
step up to the line. This is probably why there aren't more people here
listening to me. Because I'm involving you in being involved with your
brothers and sisters and It takes commitment. It takes work. So that you
can find the real value of love. The transformational value of love. So
I'm telling you That there are things for you to do, not just Think
about in a spiritual Pollyanna way. And I'm also telling you That you
already have all that it takes. Even though you think you don't. It's
the good news.

