---
 title: Knowledge knowing
 audiofn: Knowledge_knowing
---

## {{page.title}}

Knowledge Is the clear experience of unequivocal truth. Knowledge is
What you specifically know When truth is not hidden from you. And It
isn't something that you deposit in your memory banks. You do not. Move
along Experiencing truth now and another truth now and another truth
now. And store these bits of information in memory to draw upon. Come
with me for a moment on, on an inner visual journey. You are awake. And
all of infinity. And all of creation that fills it. is Consciously
present. In your awareness. No part of it. is beyond your Presence of
mind. Now You can Move through it if you wish. As though you were going
through space. And just for purpose of illustration, we'll say that you
start out from planet Earth. And as you leave planet Earth, You are
Specifically and with more focus, aware of all that it is. And all that
is Truth about it. And as you move toward Mars, Your attention begins to
shift toward your destination. And More and more specifically, you
become aware of Mars. And less and less are you specifically with a high
degree of focus. Aware of Earth. Even though everything about it. is
still Present As part of your consciousness. When you arrive at Mars.
You can Be aware of the Truth The meaning of every little grain of sand.
If you shift your attention just like that back to Earth. You can do the
same thing. With the grains of sand on the beach. Now, My point is this.
That knowledge is The direct present experience of truth. When it is
needed. Even though you are never unconscious of the truth of any aspect
of the infinitude of creation. You do not need to store. The knowing of
truth, a way for future use. You can know the truth at any moment. By
asking what truth is. And at any moment you can know the truth without
ever having to search your memory banks. Ye shall know the truth. And
the truth shall make you free. And you will know the truth by being
fully present in the moment with the specifics of creation that are in
your face at the moment. So that the direct experience of the truth of
it. Can be experienced. And thereby be the nonexistence of any confusion
about it. And you might say, The next time you're back at this place,
you will be present in the moment with it. So that you might experience
the truth of it, know the truth of it. And thereby you could say have
knowledge of it, but it's a living knowledge, not a stored knowledge. I
want you to catch the feeling of being in the flow of knowing. Always
And beginning to be willing to abandon The high regard you give to and
the use you put to memory. You will find that I use the word knowing a
lot. Knowing is a direct experience of truth. Knowing is a now, a
present experience, and It causes one to Find the past to be irrelevant.
And gives you a direct experience of the fact that there is no past or
future and that any past or future you conceived of was an illusion and
Therefore, Not worth Any comment or conversation whatsoever in light of
the fullness of knowing. which you can't help but let. Govern the way
you're being in the moment. It moves you out of time.

