---
 title: Lame beggar
 audiofn: Lame_beggar
---

## {{page.title}}

To be present with your brother or your sister. With commitment to being
the presence of love. Does not mean that you become their doormat. It
does not mean that you sacrifice integrity. Two of my disciples came
upon a lame man at the gate to a temple. Who begged her arm. Now They
were willing to be present with him and for him. But they were not
willing. To do what would confirm his miserable state of life. And so
they Without apology, said we don't have any money. We don't have any
arms for you, but what we do have, we'll gladly give you. You see what
was happening there? He didn't respond on the terms that the beggar was
asking them to respond on. He believed That he had been born lane and
that his station in life was to be a beggar, which was not. It was not a
profession, if you will, worthy of great negative judgment. It was a
well accepted, uh, station of life, you might say. They were unwilling
To respond to him on those terms because they would have left him lame.
And that wasn't what they were there for. So they did not respond on his
terms. They gave him a new way of looking at it. They shared what
provided insight. Sufficient insight. to cause him to choose for being.
As someone who could walk. And behave in the world just like everyone
else. Which changed everything about his life. In the sense that now.
His ego could say he had to become responsible. And get a job. And The
inspiration had to be sufficient. To get him to abandon everything that
he had become comfortable with a community that had become comfortable
with him being one of those in that station of life in their community
which they were willing to support, you see. He had to be inspired
enough. To be in a new way that required his community. To look at him
in a new way. Now somebody in the community had to be willing to hire
him. As long as he was sitting begging. Well, they didn't have to be
that involved, you see, they didn't have to. relate to him. Like an
employer would and the others in the community didn't have to relate to
him as a fellow employee. And so on, you see. A lot of mines had to
change. And the inspiration had to be enough. To get him, the lame man,
to abandon. What not only he but everyone in the community had become
comfortable with. Now, one could look at the disciples and say they were
upsetting the status quo. They were upstarts. Why didn't they just leave
things as they were? You see, So when you turn to the altar. To find out
How to be the presence of love and extend it. And if it's going to be
truly love extended, it's going to be transformational, which is going
to require change. And there may be some complaining about it, and there
may not. But mostly You must understand that being the presence of love.
Doesn't constitute catering to the current ego sense that your brother
has of himself. It's so easy to think that being the presence of love
means simply turning the other cheek when your brother behaves badly.
And sometimes you have to say no, brother. You are behaving badly when
you ask me for alms because you're not honoring the Christ that you are.
And I am not going to join you in dishonoring the Christ that you are.
I'm going to join you by saying, stop doing this. Stop behaving this
way. Stop conceiving of yourself this way, because here's what you are.
You are the immaculate expression of God at this very instant. You're
just believing otherwise, and your poor belief. is governing your
experience and it doesn't your experience doesn't have to be governed
this way. So let's talk about a new belief and maybe even let's go
beyond a new belief. And talk the truth. So that you might not ever
behave poorly like this again. By demeaning The immaculate Christ that
you are by presenting yourself as a poor lame peggar. This is part of
what the involvement is that I'm talking about. This is what the
atonement is about. Again, the atonement isn't about any one of you
individually. Somehow getting the point, making it, and going home. You
go home right through the middle of your brother that you've made a
commitment to. Can I put it any simpler than that?


