---
 title: Leap
 audiofn: Leap
---

## {{page.title}}

You need to be alert to what voice you're listening to the voice for God
or the voice for fear. It is a terrorist that is the voice for fear. And
then you must choose. And it isn't always an out and out war. Most of
the time it's subtle, just enough to keep you off balance, just enough
to keep you from having any self-confidence. Just enough to have subtle
doubts about yourself so that you abandon self-respect. And sometimes it
gives you good swift kicks. But the ego has no source. It's imagined.
It's the result of imagination. The ego is the result of trying to
imagine what it would be like to be on your own. And then following that
imagination to its conclusion. The ego can never enforce itself upon
you. It can never force you to do anything. So how does it work? It
works through suggestion. It suggests that you are unworthy. It whispers
I deserved this, but it whispers it in your mind, and so you think you
are thinking I deserve this. And when you do not realize that you are
only listening, And that you're listening to one of the only two voices
there is. Because you don't realize you're listening, you think it's
you, and you are caught. But if you realize that it is not you saying
it, then you will realize you are the listener. And you're listening to
one of the two voices, and it's not the voice for truth, and then you
can choose to not validate this voice. And you can choose to disregard
it by saying, Father. What is the truth here? What is the truth about me
as you see me? What is the truth about me as you are being me at this
very moment, because I know I have no existence at this moment except by
virtue of your authority and your expression of yourself, which is all
there can possibly be right here where I thought I was all by myself.
And that's how you Shift your attention to the other voice and engage in
disregarding the ego. The ego's function is to survive, and I know I'm
speaking of it as though it's an actual thing. But the um The
imaginative mental construct called ego. has one purpose. And that is to
ensure its existence. And in order to ensure its existence, it must
convince you that you are it. The ego And it must convince you. That
there are more important things for you to do than to be conscious of
your birthright. And If it manages to get your attention. And you move
out of your birthright because you're not giving your attention to it,
you immediately feel terrible. You immediately feel conflicted. And then
you are fair game for the ego because it will tell you. That the
overcoming of this feeling is your purpose and you can do it. And the
reward will be It doesn't say this clearly, that your reward will be
everything you had before you separated yourself from your birthright.
And you will have it without the father having anything to do with it.
You see, And that's the prize. And because, because this Imaginative
mental construct. is A defense mechanism. It will see everything there
is to see as though it is what it must defend itself against. The
kingdom of heaven becomes that against which you must defend yourself.
And so you must become alert, as I said. Be quick And when you feel
kicked in the side and the air sucked out of you, and the wind out of
your sails, you've got to be quick and say, Shut up, Eco. And
immediately turn your attention. To something else and again the best
something else to turn it to is God. With a request are reaching out
beyond The boundary of the ego structures. And say, God, You tell me
what's the truth about me. And lean into the answer. Become a dead
weight that leans into and falls into the answer without reservation,
like you left off a building or a cliff. Leap into the father's answer.
Over and over and over again.

