---
 title: Led like sheep
 audiofn: Led_like_sheep
---

## {{page.title}}

If your mind chooses for The voice for fear. There are only two voices,
the voice for truth and the voice for fear. If it chooses for the voice
for fear. Then everything that follows will be. One form of defense or
another. And defense is always attack. And so it becomes tyrannical in
its attempts to control life. So that the threat it perceives doesn't
harm it. In the process, it harms others apparently. It only imprisons
those who have also mutually agreed to these terms. I don't agree to
them, so whenever any of you. Gets tyrannical I just smile. It doesn't
strike fear in my heart. Because I haven't joined you in your mutually
agreed upon definition that causes you to see everything in a polarized
state that causes you to see unity as polarity. And which automatically
calls for defense. To change your mind. Initially, appears to be you
abandoning your mind. Because you think that thinking. Is the indication
of the presence of a mind. You think that if there is a mind present or
if mind is functioning, it is functioning as thinking. But it isn't
true. To change your mind means to choose again. You have only two
choices. To listen to and obey the voice for fear. Or to listen to and
obey the voice for truth. This does mean abandoning your thinking. But
when you have abandoned your thinking, you find you are still conscious.
And when you're not thinking, There is no voice for fear speaking. Ever
And in the silence. You can hear the voice for truth. And place your
mind at the disposal of it. Led like sheep, don't you have a lot of
derogatory phrases relative to being led, led around by the nose? Well,
if you're not led by me, If you are not led by an awakened brother, In
Christ's service. Then You're still choosing. To hold on to a supposed
capacity that you think you have to be authoritative on your own. And
The fact is that you're being duped. Because if you're not listening to
me, If you're not listening to the voice for truth, You are listening to
the voice for fear, and you're not. Succeeding in being a self on your
own that has a capacity to think on its own. And be creative on its own.
You have only two choices to be led around by the voice for truth or to
be led around by the voice for fear. Either way, you're going to be led.
The only thing is that when you're led around by the voice for fear, the
voice for fear lets you believe that you're doing it yourself, and
doesn't that feel good? You create a picture of another. Through the use
of your imagination without checking in with God first to see if that's
the truth. And then you act toward them based on the picture you have
created. And you do to them whatever you pictured them doing to you.
It's upside down thinking. To think that you have any authority separate
and apart from your source. Any capacity for creativity on your own.
Benny Apparent capacity to actually be reasonable. Or to express reason
that is valuable. It is upside down thinking. To think That you are An
original thinker. It is upside down thinking to think that you can be a
leader. It's all the insulting things that you really are. Helpless.
Incompetent. Incapable Unable And unreal. And unreal. In the sense of
being A presence which is refining itself. And engaged in actual real
processes of awakening. You see, That's so insulting. But It's all true.
And if the truth of it can register with you. It will cause you to
withdraw your intensity and your investment and your commitment. To
furthering All of the things that are not insulting to you which the ego
tells you is true about you. And actually beginning to reach out and say
help. Knowing that in the act of genuinely saying help. You provide the
environment and the occasion for a miracle. A sudden shift in
perception. And any one of those miracles can be the first domino. That
causes a spontaneous and total awakening now. Into the awareness of what
you truly are and were the moment before. When the first domino fell.
And that it's only a blink of an eye time wise. Between your ignorance
and your ultimate total clarity. I can't say it any more clearly than
that. It will happen. At the fastest rate it can without your
experiencing a loss of identity in the process because there's only one
you. And that identicalness, you might say that. Inseparable oneness of
you. Must remain intact. As your experience of what you are. Grows into
wholeness. And if you can bear it, you might say. It can happen in an
instant.


