---
 title: Let the answer in
 audiofn: Let_the_answer_in
---

## {{page.title}}

You can only be responsible for yourself. But as I've been saying all
day, If you will be responsible for yourself. You will be the presence
of that which is transformational. And that which is transformational
brings order to disorder. The embodiment of love, the embodiment of
truth, occurs spontaneously without any effort on your part when you let
yourself be infilled with it by choosing to be attentive to it rather
than. What your ego wants you to be attentive to. You've got to stop
waiting for God to wave a wand. And take away your troubles. You've got
to stop being in the way that creates the troubles. And God will help
you do that. Just be willing to listen. You only have to have the
capacity to be willing to listen. And let the answer in. You're you're
surrounded by the omnipotence of God. You're surrounded by Existence
that is actually incapable of being altered from what God is being. Even
though you are capable of distorting your perception of it. And
therefore, the moment you are willing in the slightest to abandon your
commitment to your misperception. The unalterable presence of God and
God's creation has a chance of registering with you. Until you be
differently. Your experience will remain the same. Until your commitment
to your misperceptions becomes weak. You will not be open to the clearer
perception of the unaltered reality of God's creation. That has never
gone anywhere. And the unaltered naked you under your costume that never
became what the costume portrayed. The reason I say everything I say is
to help promote your arriving at the point where you risk the chance
that there is a God and you let go of the very definite control you hold
on your perceptions and on everything else so that something new might
penetrate your mind and your experience and transform you and provide
you the opportunity of seeing. That your transformation within is
inseparable from The transformation of your world. And the way you see
it.


