---
 title: Let down the shield
 audiofn: Let_down_the_shield
---

## {{page.title}}

Your conditioning has educated you to believe that circumstances are the
reasons for extending or withholding love. And This is not true. The
real question always is. Is this circumstance. Enough to justify my
withholding my love and then suffering from the blockage. I've been
talking a lot about making the gift. About witnessing for your brother,
that's the way you make the gift instead of witnessing against your
brother. And as you found out, when you do make the gift, it isn't
always well received. Because To one who has been educated to believe
that they're supposed to be a self-made man or a self-made woman or
self-sufficient and self-supportive, to stand in the receipt of a gift
is insulting. If one's in that frame of reference, that mindset. And so
the making of a gift is not always well received. Now the question is,
if it isn't well received. Are you going to abandon your function? And
your function is To be the presence of love, to be caring, to uh support
the embodiment of the very best for your companions, for your brothers,
your sisters. So is that lack of welcome receipt going to be all it
takes? To justify your withholding your love or calling yourself into
question or shifting into a mode of criticism of the one who hasn't
received it, is that all it's going to take? The eagle will always find
something to quibble about even relative to your spiritual growth. They
will say you're not doing it fast enough, you're not doing it well
enough. But the reason it does it is to get you embroiled in reaction so
that you're uh off the track again. And I've talked excessively about.
Extending love and that that is your function and that, that what's
called for here is to break the habit of justifying not extending it.
But all of you in one form or another, also have the reverse problem of
being unwilling to receive love. In many ways to stand in receipt of
love is to, uh, the ego says, to acknowledge that you're a charity case.
Because you're not supposed to have good that you haven't earned. And if
good comes to you that you haven't earned, then you can't really claim
that it's yours. And the egos tries to invalidate. Unexpected and
unearned love, even though that's your birthright. So you've got to let
love out and you've got to let love in. And it can be a very good
practice for you to take time at least once a day. To notice any areas
in which you have not been willing to acknowledge the extension of love
to you and you haven't been willing to let it in so that it registers
with you and you feel loved, you see. It's all about letting down this
shield. That blocks the extension of love and the receipt of love. It's
abandoning your defenses. And whatever justification you are using for
not extending love. Does constitute a shield. Which encircles you. And
therefore becomes a prison. And all of you have become pretty good at
Functioning in an imprisoned state and a lot of you feel a great deal of
pride in how well you're able to function under this difficult
circumstance and so to have someone come along and say that this shield,
this prison is pure nonsense. Requires you to have to abandon everything
that you've become so proud of, because here you are. Here, here you are
finding out that you've been operating in a way that is totally
nonsensical. And feeling a great deal of pride about it. which then
makes you feel very stupid. And insulted and foolish. Which is just
another of the ego's ways of keeping you from Noticing that your prison
was imaginary and because it was imaginary it didn't exist and therefore
it doesn't exist now and you are totally free to embrace the world
without defense. And let in what it means. And love it. And as long as
the ego can keep you distracted by uh your feeling personally stupid and
foolish, you, you neglect to stand up and move around. Unfettered This
is why I keep saying, all you are confronted with is the kingdom of
heaven. There's only one thing that can be in your face, and that's
reality because there is nothing else. And I keep saying this so that
you will dare to look at it with fresh eyes. That you will not assume
that the way you were interpreting everything does indeed reflect what
everything is. And therefore, There's no necessity for you to continue
to be blinded to what it is. There's an adventure here in front of you.
And it looks like the person sitting next to you or the, your, your
partner or your mate or your spouse or your children, uh, or the trees
or the birds, you see. Somebody has to come along and tell you there's
another way to look at this. And then you will get little glimpses of
it, and then you'll lose it. And pretty soon the amount of time that you
that you've lost it becomes shorter. And the amount of time that it's
present with you is longer. Because the flip flopping back and forth is
a sign of the breaking of the habit of being defended against what
everything is. And the habit of valuing your interpretation of it. You
see, Everyone has had an interpretation of the kingdom of heaven, and
they call it the world. And they didn't realize that what they were
experiencing was an interpretation. So you were stuck Until someone
comes along and says, hey guys, that's just an interpretation. There's
something more here than what you're interpreting it to be, and I
encourage you to risk the chance that there is by abandoning the mental.
means you are using to block it from your experience. And the way you're
blocking it is by believing your very own definitions. What you've been
educated to believe it all is. You don't need to wait for the excitement
of exploring outer space. You can start exploring the kingdom of heaven
right here on this planet without waiting for technology to provide the
means to explore the vastness of the universe. And the fact is that the
moment you begin to recognize what's really here. You will actually
begin to have the universe at your fingertips. And will not need
technology to explore it. So I hold out to you the promise of The
kingdom of heaven right here without your having to die. And I'll say it
again, if you die without having abandoned your definitions and your
beliefs, they will still blind you, and you will still be in the kingdom
of heaven calling it not the kingdom of heaven. So, There you are.

