---
 title: Letting go control
 audiofn: Letting_go_control
---

## {{page.title}}

You can make a decision to try. To let go of control and to go to that
place of excellence in you. And practice this. Practice. Listening
Without figuring it out. And then trusting into what you hear. Not
relying upon yourself, trusting into what you hear. This is the way you
become free of the infatuation with personal authority. That causes you
to be completely inattentive to The presence of God in you, the presence
of life with a capital L, the presence of love. The presence of truth in
you. The presence of mind with a capital M in you. That would If let in
Not only allow what you call your physical eyes to see with perfect
vision, but to be able to see. The kingdom of heaven, reality that's
confronting you that you've been seeing in a distorted way. Because of
your mindsets and your interpretations that you've been applying to it.
Prayer is saying yes to God. Prayer is not asking God anything. Prayer
is saying yes, Father, I want to see. With your eyes Intellectually I'm
beginning to grasp that I don't really have a personal capacity to see
creation separate from you on my own. This, this sense of a me with a
capacity to see things independently is pure fantasy. I can grasp the
idea even though I don't get the meaning. Fully And with the grasp of
that idea, I am willing to turn to you. Father And inquire of you. And
yield to you. And let you in. And let your presence. Apparently replace.
My present sense of myself. Which I'm now beginning to think may well be
nothing more than pure fantasy. Even though what I am is real. That's
saying yes to God. And it's a complete lack of energizing any personal
capacity you have. The father is saying Come on in. Come on home. Come
on back from the fun you've been having. Thinking you're an independent.
Entity And so you yield To reality And abandon your fantasy that The
thrill of which you thought was so much fun.

