---
 title: Letting go of Doubt
 audiofn: Letting_go_of_Doubt
---

## {{page.title}}

Everything essential to your awakening is present at any given moment.
All of reality in its entirety is available to you in a split second.
The minute you completely step aside, the minute you completely abandon
willfulness, all of it in its entirety replaces. The ignorance you've
been suffering from. Not just as an idea but as an experience, the
undistorted experience of reality. And again I must say that it's
available to you. In any given moment of any day you're in the middle of
or any night. When you genuinely insist upon. Stopping Whatever
processes you're in. Whatever ego satisfying processes you're in. And
you say, Father, You reach out, in other words. Outside of your privacy.
Outside of your imagined separateness, Father. What is the truth here?
Not only that, what is the truth here about my brother? My brother
deserves more than he's experiencing. He deserves to experience his
birthright, which is more than what he's experiencing. Help me mentor
him. By revealing to me how to be in his presence. I don't know how to
do it. The holy instant has not yet happened to me. Therefore, I'm going
to stop trying to create the holy instant. I'm going to shut up, and in
the silence, I'm going to let you fill me. With yourself which will
constitute the holy instant. Why? Because my brother has become more
important to me. Than me. But Your willingness to mentor or to be a
philanthropist. As An expression Of what is fundamental to your very
being. Because someone has now told you that it is fundamental to your
being. And that you Calling it forth by your giving your attention to
it. is the means by which You escape sin, sickness, and death, conflict
suffering. And wake up so that What the words kingdom of heaven unquote
mean. is an actual experience and not just An incredible idea. The
practice of the power of God. Is the practice of letting God in and
through you. By saying, Father, Show me your perspective. Show me how
you would have me be. Show me how to reflect. All that is true about you
and therefore, all that is real about me. So that I no longer engage in
the expression of things that are not real about me. And as a result,
blind myself. To my capacity to mentor. To my capacity to be A full-time
philanthropist. Use the power of God, but for one instant, and you will
never deny it again. Who can deny the presence of what the universe bows
to. In appreciation and gladness. Before the recognition of the universe
which witnesses to it, your doubts must disappear. Doubt is something
you practice. That isn't something that overwhelms you. Doubt is an
inner expression of weakness. That is clearly calculated. Because you
believe That you are limited And you believe that you don't know
everything. And you believe that you are vulnerable because of it. And
your clear belief, which you have Commitment to is pure imagination.
It's not the truth. You are the Christ employing ignorance consciously.
Got it? You are Christ's employing ignorance consciously, and you come
back to the rules that you have made up that say you have not the means
to be philanthropic. You have not the means to give. Because you lack
You do not have And as a result, you are vulnerable. You use those
thoughts, you use those words almost like a mantra. You weave a spell on
yourself using those kind of words. They're not true. Stop using them.
Stop doing what isn't true. Abandon your independent stance. And ask the
Holy Spirit in you, which is nothing more than your right mind, to
reveal its place in you as you in your right mind. So that you can
abandon these conscious practices of ignorance. Before the recognition
of the universe which witnesses to the holy instant. Your doubts must
disappear. They will disappear because you're going to abandon their
use. You're going to abandon practicing. Ignorance Is it because you're
malicious that you do it? No. It's because it's an interesting thing to
do. It can be a fascinating thing, a fascinating use you can put your
mind to, because it creates These false experiences that are fearful,
fearsome. And which can cause in you a A feeling of trying to overcome
them and maybe doing it. But you don't have to do these interesting
things that cause you to be unconscious of reality. Unconscious of the
kingdom of heaven right where you're calling it, the world and the
universe that came from the Big Bang and had not a thing to do with God.
So before the recognition of the universe, which witnesses to it. Your
doubts must disappear. Your practice of doubt. Must Be given up, and I
don't mean that as a command. You must give them up. When you yield
enough for the influx of revelation to occur, The practice of doubt will
disappear. It must disappear because it can no longer hold interest for
you. It can no longer be fascinating to you. Because the experience of
reality is so much more full and satisfying. Then the experience of
ignorance that causes fear, that causes you to feel the need to overcome
it, and in overcoming it, prove to yourself that you as an independent
entity exist and are real. Don't let your ego say, Well, Paul is lucky.
He is in touch with his guidance. I'm not in touch with my guidance.
When I've tried to get in touch with my guidance, but nothing has
happened. OK, and there you are weaving your tail. There you are weaving
a story. That will become a rule. And you'll use it To practice doubt
with commitment. And yet all it is is a story you made up. That isn't
true. And that you can't be bound by, and you're not bound by. And the
only thing that causes you to seem to be bound by it is the unrelenting
commitment you make to that. Fairy tale, that story.

