---
 title: Life in the margin
 audiofn: Life_in_the_margin
---

## {{page.title}}

The kingdom of heaven reality. is overflowing with uniqueness. Enjoy
being in the margin. The main text of the page is What it is because
Everyone there is trying to be alike, is trying to fit in. succeeding in
Not being unique. Which is a great loss. You might say that reality is
all in the margins. Dare to be your glorious self. Dare to be
unapologetically you. You're not here to conform to someone else's
concept of how you ought to be. You are here to conform to What God
would have you be, which means you're here to let, to allow. The full
expression of God into expression on his terms. If you are here To be
the transformational presence of God. Then You're going to conform to
what God is expressing as you. And you're not going to conform to what
you would call your human family. And by conforming to what God is being
right there where you are. You will become a transformational presence.
You can become an inspiration to those in your family who are caught in.
Conforming So that they can break free of it themselves. and bring more
of their unique gift. Into the picture so that the whole family is
enriched. So don't labor under the idea that you've got to fit in. You
fit in by bringing the utter originality of your being. Into the picture
with them. That's the way you fit in on God's terms. Be appropriate in
each moment. According to your best inner sense of what is appropriate.
You can be a great teacher to them. By conveying by your actions that
they don't have to be what others in their family expect them to be.
It's simple. Everyone who's in the main text and not marginalized is
joining in mutual agreement to be Untrue to themselves. And so there's a
mutual dream state going on. And their divinity, their specific gift. I
lost is covered up and ends up being the bubbly. Packed down under the
fat cork. So be yourself and inspire the bubbly in them to push against
the cork. And feel your own joy.

