---
 title: Littleness vs Magnitude
 audiofn: Littleness_vs_Magnitude
---

## {{page.title}}

Littleness versus magnitude. Be not content with littleness. But be sure
you understand what littleness is. And why you could never be content
with it. Littleness is the offering you gave yourself. You offered this
in place of magnitude and you accepted it. You have made up this picture
of you. You've made little rules. The little rules Caused you to feel
insecure, cause you to have doubts which you practice very consciously
by rehearsing these rules you first made up. And as a result, the
picture you have of yourself is not one of a philanthropist, is not one
of a mentor. You offered this in place of magnitude, and you accepted
it. In your acceptance of it, it was like signing, sealing, and
delivering it into law. As that which is governing you, even though you
are governing yourself by their use, by their conscious practice.
Everything in this world. I little. Because it is a world made out of
littleness. In the strange belief that littleness can content you. You
have taken the kingdom of heaven and redefined it. Causing that which
was infinite to become less than it was little. Everything in this
world. I little. Because it is a world made out of littleness. In the
strange belief that littleness can content you. Well, you say, why would
I say that littleness would content me. Well, the way you say littleness
will content you is that littleness causes you to feel incompetent and
vulnerable and creates in you a desire to overcome that. And going for
the carrot. Attempting the impossible makes you feel good about
yourself. And so you stick with the ignorance. And you go after the car
ad infinitum. And thus littleness contents you because of the hit you
get from trying to overcome it. That's how. When you strive for anything
in this world that with the belief. That it will bring you peace, you
are belittling yourself and blinding yourself to glory. Listen to this
littleness and glory are the choices open to your striving and your
vigilance. They're the two choices you have. Littleness and glory. You
will always choose one at the expense of the other. Yet what you do not
realize. Each time you choose. Is that your choice is your evaluation of
yourself.

