---
 title: Location of consciousness
 audiofn: Location_of_consciousness
---

## {{page.title}}

The only place there is Is consciousness. is the experience of being
mined. That's the place you're in. And it's the place that is you. The
experience of universe or galaxy or uh Earth. is occurring in Your
conscious awareness. It's not a place you're in, it's a place that's in
you. As a conscious experience of a divine idea. Now, why are you in the
place and why are you the capital P place that is consciousness in which
All of creation. Seems to reside and is experienced. Because you are.
The mind which is God. Presencing itself. As you And your purpose is to
recognize God. In all of it. Which means that when that happens, when
you let that shift occur, You won't go to some other universe, to some
other space-time coordinate. But you will find yourself. Feeling as
though you were becoming huge. That you are the place in which all of
creation is And it's all some aspect of the infinitude of you because
it's all. The infinitude of God. And your function, your purpose. is to
be the witness for what God is being. The purpose of the infinite divine
mind is to be that which acknowledges and recognizes all that the
infinite mind that God is is. Being Your function or purpose is to
recognize God in all of creation. Not as some puny little entity in the
middle of creation. But as that mind in which all of creation. is
present Because your mind has no coordinates. You are giving highly
focused attention. To some small part of the infinitude of you. And
you're calling it This galaxy and this planet. And you're calling
yourself a body that was born into it. And can die out of it or ascend
out of it. The ultimate result of that is that your attention isn't
where you are. Because you think there's somewhere else to be that's
better, or somewhere else that you will be when you have grown enough
spiritually to wake up. When all that will happen is that Your mind will
become consciously aware. Of Creation with a capital C. As that which
Fills you. As the conscious experience of capital B being. As the
conscious experience and recognition of creation. And therefore, as you
inseparable from God, who is the reason you're conscious, and whose mind
itself. Has been God's gift to you. You must bring your attention and
your curiosity. To the place in the middle of this universe that you
seem to be in and to yourself in the middle of this universe that you
seem to be, and you must be willing to look at it with new eyes. To see
God in it. And inevitably, You're bringing your attention to where God
is present to be recognized because it's not really a place small P but
the capital P place you will find. This expansion spontaneously
happening. Where it becomes more and more obvious to you. That you are
the location of the universe. Not this body, but you consciousness are
the location of all of the infinite ideas of God. When that happens, all
of the apparently material accompaniments to form. To space-time
coordinates. will disappear. And the divinity of the idea. that each one
is the manifestation or the visibility of. will become apparent to you
in its utter Pure Benign Innocent perfection. And you will recognize
yourself in it. You will say wow, it's all me. I am all of it and The
word I won't be the important part of the sentence. All of it will be
the important part of the sentence. And it's when the eye becomes the
least important part of the sentence that you become what's called a
co-creator with God. Why? Because you are allowing God to be the
movement of creation, and you are no longer holding yourself in your
mind apart from that as a recipient of it. But as the acknowledgment of
it. This little space-time coordinate called you. is never going to
advance. To become more than it is and suddenly flash out from this
universe to another one. What you're identifying as you is going to
shift from that coordinate. To the mind in which that coordinate is
being experienced. And then all of the infinite coordinates that could
be mapped. will become irrelevant. In the conscious experience of
infinite wholeness. that you are experiencing. And you will glory in the
acknowledgment of God in the awesome. Experience of God in everything.
And that will become the new meaning of the word I. The coordinates will
not disappear. But the vantage point of wholeness. And the joy of the
experience of it without any division. Or separation being experienced
about it. will be what replaces The old definition that you had given to
the word I. The place you're looking for is in you. You're not in it.


