---
 title: Make the correction
 audiofn: Make_the_correction
---

## {{page.title}}

This is certainly encouraging, isn't it? Child of God, you were created
to create the good, the beautiful, and the holy. Do not forget this. And
then don't forget how to do it. Or let's put it this way, don't forget
how not to do it. And how not to do it. is to indulge in making
definitions, committing to them, acting upon them, and then requiring
everyone else to act upon them. Where you are relating to everyone and
everything. Without joining with one who is awake or with the Holy
Spirit or with the Father. With a curiosity to see things as they are so
that you might love them truly. And again I have to bring home the
point. When you succeed in being still. When you succeed in abandoning
thinking, even if it's momentary or for 5 minutes or 10 minutes. During
that period of time in the absence of the busyness of your mind. God's
mind. Registers with you. Maybe not in its totality. Maybe only as much
as you will allow. Which might not be very much. But the experience will
be a radically different experience. Especially in that it will be
absent of fear entirely. Which is not an insignificant difference.
You're going to have to express it to each other. Why Well, because the
minute you looked at your brother and sister and you defined them. Gave
them a definition of your own. You turned them into a learning tool. So
you've got to start where the, where the correction is needed. Because
you, is this making more sense? There's just no way to sidestep this.
There's just no way to somehow jump from Inappropriately expressed
miracle impulses to the full blown. Conscious experience of the mind of
God as your own. Without undoing. The very things that took you away
from your clear Presence as the mind of God. And so you must make the
correction. Where the correction is needed. It can't be avoided. Because
you can't get back into sanity while there are still Bits of insanity
present. And so where you withdrew love because you preferred to have A
slightly twisted perception of your sister. You've got to slightly
untwist that perception. You've got to undo it. And there's no way to
sidestep it. You say, well, She is such a bitch. She is not worth it.
Well, there's your definition. You mean to tell me? that there really is
some place. Where it is worth it to you. To block the presence of love
that you are. That's what you're saying. Stop it. You can use your body
best to help you enlarge your perception. So you can achieve real
vision. Of which the physical eye is incapable. Learning to do this is
the body's only true usefulness. And I will say, learning to do this is
the body's only true usefulness at the moment. When you are no longer
holding your brother or your sister or your world hostage to The
definitions you have superimposed upon them. Then The body will not need
to be used for any purpose relative to regaining your sanity because
your sanity will have been regained, and now you won't use your body any
more than you will use any part of the universe. You will instead stand
in awe of the glory of the infiniteness. Of creation that God is being.
And your whole being. We'll be glorifying God. Rather than any single
part of the infinite manifestation of God. Either at the bottom line
you're going to block your very own function, your very own divine
function. And continue to be miserable. Or you're going to find a way to
Be what you are and express it in the world. And care enough about your
fellow man. To listen carefully for how to extend it so that it has the
best chance of being received without any perception of threat being
felt by the one extended to.

