---
 title: Make the choice
 audiofn: Make_the_choice
---

## {{page.title}}

The rules, the structures of your misperceptions. are as illusory. As
your misperceptions and cannot govern. The event of the miracle or its
outcome. Loving someone is not a miracle. It's a function. It's your
function. You cannot choose or decide. What a miracle is going to be or
where it needs to happen. You must choose to love because not loving is
an act of self-denial and self-hate that you will unavoidably suffer
from. The only way you will love is to choose to be loved. When you are
awake, It will not be a choice. But right now when you are engaged, all
of you, when you are engaged in having a private separate experience,
separated experience of being. Where the meaning of love has been lost
to you. You do have to make a choice. Just like you have to make a
choice. Between the voice for fear or the voice for God. You have to
make choices and then make commitment to those choices so that you undo
established habits that keep you blinded to your function and keep you
blinded to who you are and keep you blinded to the fact that you're
sitting right in the middle of the kingdom of heaven calling it quote
the world. The place where the human condition is experienced. You must
be willing to invalidate what you think you know. So that there is an
empty space in which the father can insert the truth. And the best way
to make the space. Invitingly empty. is to say Father What is the truth
here? When you do that, you are providing a space that you're not
filling up before the father can fill it up. Now this has nothing to do
with saying, I am really stupid. It's not a statement about yourself at
all. Other than that, you are choosing. To join with someone other than
yourself. And partner with that other one. From here on.

