---
 title: Maximal Healing
 audiofn: Maximal_Healing
---

## {{page.title}}

"Not only Does each one of you have A guide, one who is totally awake.
Standing at your service. You also have me standing with you at your
service. And then in addition to your guide, there are those awakened
individualities who work in conjunction with your guide on your behalf.
Relative to your physical well-being. They do not manipulate the body.
But they stand Helping to uncover Whatever beliefs. are blocking The
normal function of your body. And facilitating their release. And so
what I encourage you to do every night when you go to bed. is to just
say Will my healing team please address this Problem I would like a
healing session. And I would like it to be maximal. Not that the support
that is given is less than maximal, but by saying and let it be maximal.
It is a matter of your giving permission consciously for the healing to
be maximal. Now, In addition to this, When you eat, And before you put a
bite of anything into your mouth. I want you to bless it. I want you to
thank God for this bite to eat. I want you to thank it for whatever its
real meaning is. And I want you to remember that I'm telling you. That
Because God is indivisible. God cannot be conflicted. And therefore the
kingdom of heaven, which is the only thing you are experiencing at this
moment, even if you believe otherwise. Because this is the kingdom of
heaven. There is nothing in it that can have a conflicted effect. And
therefore this food that you are going to be putting in your mouth and
swallowing. Has not the capacity truly divinely. To conflict in any way.
With your body. So, I want you to express gratitude for the bite of food
that's on the fork. I want you to thank God for it. And I want you to
remember consciously that it has not the capacity to act at odds with
you in any way, because if it exists at all and if your body exists at
all, it exists as the unconflicted presence or manifestation of an
undivided God. The more you can dare to look at your world, even as
specifically as the bite of food on your plate. With the curiosity. To
experience what of God is expressed here. That is the way You can get
past. Medical definitions of it, scientific definitions of it, and False
beliefs that you have acquired about what it must be. And in that way
begin to experience the harmony that all of this is expressing. Now, I
don't care how many years this has been going on. 20 years of darkness
has not built up a strength of presence that would hold back the light.
When the light went on. And 6 years of the presence of Some condition
Does not acquire substance and therefore uh some permanence of presence
that will be difficult to dissolve. In the presence of Clarity of mind.
And Conscious expressions of appreciation, which are forms of love. So
it doesn't have to take a year. To get over this. It doesn't have to
take 3 weeks. What I am saying is Do not say, well, this has been going
on for so long that it really is going to take a while to go away. When
the light of truth goes on. That which had no substance, true substance.
Must end up Not being anywhere to be found. Your body is your friend.
Your body has a function. And that is to identify the presence of your
individuality perfectly. And your individuality. Is the presence of God.
So at the bottom line, The function of your body is to identify the
presence and movement and meaning that God is right there perfectly. So
don't hate your body and don't try to rise above it and don't try to
get. Beyond it It must be brought right into the middle of the presence
of God. It must be equated with God, not left on the outside. And then
the same thing with anything you put in your mouth. And I do mean
anything, including poison. That is an extreme that I do not suggest
that you try because the clarity needed for that because of the beliefs
about it is great. But my point is, That there is no substance that you
can find anywhere that can act in conflict with your body because either
it's all God. Perceived clearly or through a glass darkly. Or it's God.
Seeing clearly Or see through a glass darkly. There is no other choice,
you see. You see, your body has no capacity to act independently.
Because its whole function is to identify the presence of your
individuality perfectly. It's incapable of doing anything else. But all
of you can by means of fear and worry. I'm going to say you can seem to
bias. The function. You can't truly, totally override it, but you can
bias your experience of it. So that you experience distress. And what
we're talking about is getting rid of this tendency to bias. So that The
divine intent. can reemerge. Because you're not interfering with it
anymore. So it's important for you to understand that your body is your
ally because it has only one purpose to identify you perfectly. If you
will get out of the way and let it do that, you will find it returning
to its normal function. In other cases you will find healing occurring.
Shortened limbs becoming extended, blemishes disappearing. Enlarged
breasts for small breasted women. Did I get you? So that symmetry and
balance and the beauty that's inherent in the movement of love that God
is is embodied. So There is a great benefit. And Having a new sense of
what the body is and what its function is. And who this you is that it
is identifying perfectly because it's not just a puny little human being
that it's identifying perfectly, it's the presence of what God is being
right there that it is identifying perfectly. So you are embracing a new
concept of body and a clearer idea of what you are. And when your
thought is in alignment with Truth With what is really going on, as I
said before, it will seem to you that the universe conspires to conform.
To that evidence or that manifestation. It isn't that you have exercised
power. But by getting your beliefs out of the way, there is nothing
distorting your experience of what's really going on.

