---
 title: Meditation 2
 audiofn: Meditation_2
---

## {{page.title}}

In your practice then. Practice of what? Practice of the holy instant.
In your practice then, try only to be vigilant against deception. And
seek not to protect the thoughts you would keep unto yourself. Well, how
do you be vigilant against deception? Easy. It's the answer to What is
the practice of deception? The practice of deception is thinking by
yourself. Thinking on your own. So, in your practice, then try only to
be vigilant against deception. The practice of uh thinking all by
yourself and seek not to protect the thoughts that you would think all
by yourself, that you would keep unto yourself, the private thoughts you
would have, that you would keep private within you. Let the Holy
Spirit's purity shine them away and bring all your awareness to the
readiness for purity he offers you. Be willing to do this radical thing.
of abandoning your right to think your own thoughts. of neglecting to
Practice it. And to become silent and listen, desiring to know the
truth. I want you to wish To experience everything through my vision.
Which is my gift to you from God. In order for that to happen, you have
to be willing to be Consciously being with me. Consciously aware. That I
am with you and that you are with me. And that there's no value. And our
not being together. And then valuing my perspective. My vision Because
my vision Is the father's perspective. Which I give to you from him. And
which, as I've said before, when you let it in, you will share with your
brothers. But of course, We're talking there about sharing. We're not
talking about privacy. We're actually talking about standing in the
experience of awe. And exclaiming your awe. In whatever words pour
forth. Because you can do no otherwise. Because it's so obvious that
there is nothing else. To be saying or being or doing. Your resurrection
Your Easter will be When you say yes, In any particular instant. To
abandoning all the little acts of privacy, all the little attitudes of
privacy. And opening up. With total defenselessness. To the meaning of
your brother. Or to the meaning of the flower or to the meaning of the
table. As God is being each one of those. Let the Holy Spirit's purity
shine them away and bring all your awareness to the readiness for purity
he offers you. And I'm going to add a purity that is your very self. A
holiness that is your very holiness. The truth about you that is the
very truth about you. Thus will he make you ready to acknowledge that
you are host to God and hostage to no one and nothing. Be willing to
Dare to believe. That every time you have a thought all by yourself,
Every time you have a judgment, every time you have an evaluation, every
time you come to a conclusion based upon what you already know. You have
become hostage to those thoughts. Why? Because that's not your function.
Your function is to be host to God. Your function is to allow the
Father's will, the conscious awareness of truth, the obviousness of
truth, to constitute your mind. So that that is what you are expressing.
So that is What promotes Your every act That's your freedom. That's your
wholeness. That's your holiness. When you forfeit those, So that you
might have a thought of your own. A determination that you've come up
with based upon your best judgments. You have become hostage to those
thoughts because they absolutely bind you to an unconsciousness of your
birthright and of your holiness. They take you away from your conscious
awareness of truth. and incarcerate you in a finite. Mentality And hold
you hostage. Hold you hostage because you always serve. Those who hold
you as hostage, you always serve what holds you as a hostage. Easter
Easter is the instant you're in. Right now And right now is an
acceptable moment. For your resurrection. It's an acceptable moment to
yield to the Father's will. As an actual thing and not just a wonderful
spiritual idea. Now, so far we've basically been talking about the holy
instant. And what it amounts to. Which is Your willingness to become
still. Invite the Father's will into your awareness and yield to it.
This is all well and good. But the fact is that you want the Father's
will to infill you regarding everything you have ignorance about. So
that True understanding, the experience of the truth of everything. Is
your conscious experience. And you're no longer ignorant of it. Now, the
holy instant is the Holy Spirit's most useful learning device for
teaching you love's meaning. For its purpose is to suspend judgment
entirely. Suspending judgment is the equivalent of neglecting. To
practice independence, neglecting. To engage in private thinking.
Unjoined thinking. Its purpose is to suspend judgment entirely. Well,
there you go. How can you do it entirely? It's like, how can you root
out every false thought, every negative thought. You don't have to. All
you have to do is to neglect to employ any of them. You suspend judgment
entirely. By abandoning judgment. In favor of inquiring of the father.
Or the Holy Spirit, what is the truth here? I want to join with you. In
order to Have you share with me your perspective. And I am going to stop
holding on to the right. To having private thoughts of my own in
addition to the ones you share with me. I care To be family. I care to
be part of family. I care to be embraced. By all, and I care to embrace
all, and I don't know how to do it. And I'm asking you to show me. And I
yield I will yield to the obviousness of the truth you share with me.
That's how you suspend judgment entirely. Judgment always rests on the
past, for past experience is the basis on which you judge. Judgment
becomes impossible without the past, for without it you do not
understand anything. So you see, The trap is thinking that you
understand something. At any point. The moment you think you understand
something, You've lost a vision. You're not looking with innocent eyes.
You're not seeing, the behold I make all things new. Hey. It looks like
it's the same old glass to me. Looks like it's the same old water that
was there 5 minutes ago in it. But wait a minute. The fact is, behold I
make all things new. I make all things new, I make all things new.
There's nothing about that glass or that water that is old. The Father
is being it, creation is being it right now, right now, right now, right
now. It's brand new. You don't understand what you haven't experienced.
So stop trying to understand. And let me make this clear. When you
become still and you desire to know the truth and truth is revealed and
it is obvious to you, what is obvious to you doesn't become
understanding. Understanding is about past things. You cannot understand
something now. You can be with it and experience its obviousness, but
you will make mistake. If you Take what is obvious. And add it to your
memory as a definition of a thing that will always be what it is. And
now you can explore it and examine it and uh study it and come to
conclusions about it. No. The obviousness of truth. His is the
obviousness of For lack of better words, living love. Divine life. It's
a fluid thing. It's not static. And so you will always find yourself
knowing the truth. Experiencing the obviousness of the divinity of
creation. And it will not be something you accumulate as knowledge. To
hold and to refer to and to base future actions upon. Because You will
be making a shift into basing your actions on the obviousness of the
truth of things in the holy instant, in the now of conscious awareness.
Being From this vantage point is a constant source of delight. But when
you take the obviousness of truth. And you capture it And you understand
it. The delight is gone. And that's basically what you're living in. And
what I'm inviting you. To abandon and come out from The ego is that
imagined presence. That has come to understand what everything means.
And without this capacity to understand what everything means. It's
called the ego. The belief is that everything would be chaos. Yet I
assure you That without the ego, all would be love. All would be a
singularity. An infinite Singularity Living, moving, love. The nature
and substance. Of every idea I didn't say every thought, every idea. Or
carefully we could say every thought of God. You see, The Result Of
resurrection Is the movement into the singularity. The obviousness of
the singularity of love relative to everything. It's something to be
greatly desired. But not a thing. To desire endlessly. Although it's
unobtainable. It is a thing to desire. Enough to bring you to a point of
neglecting to do what blocks the experience of it. And what blocks the
experience of it. In one form or another is nothing more than the
chatter that goes on in your mind. Which amounts to static. Which When
what causes it is abandoned. Leaves you in the pristine quietness. Of
the mind of God Which is your mind. And in that quietness. All that
characterizes the mind of God. We'll register with you. And transform
you And cause you to see everything with fresh eyes. And Promote your
Ongoing being. Without You're attempting to Say I understand. Instead of
saying, I understand, And accumulating your understanding. You will say
It's obvious And I am curious. I am open-endedly curious. To experience
the behold I make all things new. Which is the movement of God. In me.
Because I am the host of God. And my only function. is to let the
movement of God in me. Constitute my undistorted experience of reality.
This is the wonderful truth. And although we can talk about The nature
of the human mind. The independent ego. In very complex terms. There's a
very simple way. To become free of it. And that is to neglect to employ
it. Turn your attention to listening. Instead of thinking It's simple. I
continue to recommend it to every single one of you.

