---
 title: Meditation 3
 audiofn: Meditation_3
---

## {{page.title}}

Now here's the prayer. That amounts to The two step And its meaning.
Forgive us our illusions, Father. Independence abandoned. Oh. Forgive us
our illusions, Father. And help us to accept our true relationship with
you. In which there are no illusions and where none can ever enter.
That's significant. That's because in the holy instant when you're in
that place, God's laws prevail. And illusions cannot enter where God's
laws prevail. Our holiness Is yours In other words, I accept my
birthright. I accept that I am your expression, your son or daughter. I
accept that all there is to me. Is what you've embodied of yourself in
me as me. And that you have withheld nothing of what you infinitely are
in what you have embodied in me. What can there be in us that needs
forgiveness when yours is perfect. And when I have chosen to be In the
holy instant where your laws prevail. The sleep of forgetfulness is only
the unwillingness to remember your forgiveness and your love,
unwillingness to remember. Well, I'm too busy taking care of things
myself. You see. Let us not wander into temptation. Temptation to what?
Temptation to be angry, temptation to be jealous, Temptation to, to, to
take advantage of your brother. Temptation, temptation to temptation.
Let us not wander into temptation. For the temptation of the Son of God
is not your will. And let us receive only. What you have given. Oh, that
is so insulting to the orphan mindset, to the ego. Yet What are you
doing when you do that? You're letting God's laws prevail and radically
change your experience of being, bringing you back into your right mind.
And let us receive only what you have given. And accept but this into
the minds which you created. And which you love. Amen. You have
available to you. Every instant Let each instant be. The holy instant
You are not short changed in any way. From having the opportunity to
practice the holy instant. Instants are abundantly provided. Now
remember what I said. Keep the word radical in your mind. And remember
that what we're talking about. is not whole hum average casual fare for
contemplation and discussion and stimulating camaraderie that is nothing
but a distraction from actually seeking and finding his message in the
holy instant. In which you will find something happening because God's
laws prevail and God's laws prevailing will cause your experience to
change radically. That's the promise, and that's the truth.

