---
 title: Meditation 2
 audiofn: Meditation_2
---

## {{page.title}}

In your practice then, practice of what? Practice of the holy instant. In your practice then, try only to be vigilant against deception. And seek not to protect the thoughts you would keep unto yourself.

Well, how do you be vigilant against deception? Easy. It’s the answer to what is the practice of deception? The practice of deception is thinking by yourself. Thinking on your own. So, in your practice, then try only to be vigilant against deception. The practice of uh thinking all by yourself and seek not to protect the thoughts that you would think all by yourself, that you would keep unto yourself, the private thoughts you would have, that you would keep private within you.

Let the Holy Spirit’s purity shine them away and bring all your awareness to the readiness for purity he offers you. Be willing to do this radical thing of abandoning your right to think your own thoughts. Of neglecting to practice it. And to become silent and listen, desiring to know the truth. I want you to wish to experience everything through my vision. Which is my gift to you from God. In order for that to happen, you have to be willing to be consciously being with me. Consciously aware. That I am with you and that you are with me. And that there’s no value in our not being together.

And then valuing my perspective my vision because my vision as the Father’s perspective. Which I give to you from him. And which, as I’ve said before, when you let it in, you will share with your brothers. But of course, we’re talking there about sharing. We’re not talking about privacy. We’re actually talking about standing in the experience of awe. And exclaiming your awe in whatever words pour forth. Because you can do no otherwise. Because it’s so obvious that there is nothing else to be saying or being or doing.

Your resurrection your Easter will be when you say yes, in any particular instant to abandoning all the little acts of privacy, all the little attitudes of privacy. And opening up with total defenselessness to the meaning of your brother. Or to the meaning of the flower or to the meaning of the table. As God is being each one of those.

Let the Holy Spirit’s purity shine them away and bring all your awareness to the readiness for purity he offers you. And I’m going to add a purity that is your very self. A holiness that is your very holiness. The truth about you that is the very truth about you. Thus will he make you ready to acknowledge that you are host to God and hostage to no one and nothing.

Be willing to dare to believe that every time you have a thought all by yourself, every time you have a judgment, every time you have an evaluation, every time you come to a conclusion based upon what you already know you have become hostage to those thoughts. Why? Because that’s not your function. Your function is to be host to God. Your function is to allow the Father’s will, the conscious awareness of truth, the obviousness of truth, to constitute your mind. So that that is what you are expressing.

So that is what promotes your every act. That’s your freedom. That’s your wholeness. That’s your holiness. When you forfeit those, so that you might have a thought of your own, a determination that you’ve come up with based upon your best judgments. You have become hostage to those thoughts because they absolutely bind you to an unconsciousness of your birthright and of your holiness. They take you away from your conscious awareness of truth and incarcerate you in a finite mentality. And hold you hostage. Hold you hostage because you always serve those who hold you as hostage. You always serve what holds you as a hostage.

Easter Easter is the instant you’re in. Right now.And right now is an acceptable moment for your resurrection. It’s an acceptable moment to yield to the Father’s will as an actual thing and not just a wonderful spiritual idea.

Now, so far we’ve basically been talking about the holy instant. And what it amounts to. Which is Your willingness to become still, invite the Father’s will into your awareness and yield to it. This is all well and good. But the fact is that you want the Father’s will to infill you regarding everything you have ignorance about. So that true understanding, the experience of the truth of everything is your conscious experience. And you’re no longer ignorant of it.

Now, the holy instant is the Holy Spirit’s most useful learning device for teaching you love’s meaning. For its purpose is to suspend judgment entirely. Suspending judgment is the equivalent of neglecting to practice independence, neglecting to engage in private thinking. Unjoined thinking. Its purpose is to suspend judgment entirely. Well, there you go. How can you do it entirely? It’s like, how can you root out every false thought, every negative thought. You don’t have to. All you have to do is to neglect to employ any of them.

You suspend judgment entirely by abandoning judgment in favor of inquiring of the Father. Or the Holy Spirit, what is the truth here? I want to join with you in order to have you share with me your perspective. And I am going to stop holding on to the right to having private thoughts of my own in addition to the ones you share with me. I care to be family. I care to be part of family. I care to be embraced by all, and I care to embrace all, and I don’t know how to do it. And I’m asking you to show me. And I yield I will yield to the obviousness of the truth you share with me. That’s how you suspend judgment entirely.

Judgment always rests on the past, for past experience is the basis on which you judge. Judgment becomes impossible without the past, for without it you do not understand anything. So you see, the trap is thinking that you understand something. At any point. The moment you think you understand something you’ve lost a vision. You’re not looking with innocent eyes. You’re not seeing, the behold I make all things new. Hey it looks like it’s the same old glass to me. Looks like it’s the same old water that was there 5 minutes ago in it. But wait a minute. The fact is, behold I make all things new. I make all things new, I make all things new. There’s nothing about that glass or that water that is old. The Father is being it, creation is being it right now, right now, right now, right now. It’s brand new.

5You don’t understand what you haven’t experienced. So stop trying to understand. And let me make this clear. When you become still and you desire to know the truth and truth is revealed and it is obvious to you, what is obvious to you doesn’t become understanding. Understanding is about past things. You cannot understand something now. You can be with it and experience its obviousness, but you will make a mistake if you take what is obvious and add it to your memory as a definition of a thing that will always be what it is. And now you can explore it and examine it and uh study it and come to conclusions about it.

No. The obviousness of truth His is the obviousness of for lack of better words, living love. Divine life. It’s a fluid thing. It’s not static. And so you will always find yourself knowing the truth. Experiencing the obviousness of the divinity of creation. And it will not be something you accumulate as knowledge to hold and to refer to and to base future actions upon. Because you will be making a shift into basing your actions on the obviousness of the truth of things in the holy instant, in the now of conscious awareness.

Being from this vantage point is a constant source of delight. But when you take the obviousness of truth. And you capture it. And you understand it. The delight is gone. And that’s basically what you’re living in. And what I’m inviting you to abandon and come out from the ego is that imagined presence that has come to understand what everything means.

And without this capacity to understand what everything means it’s called the ego. The belief is that everything would be chaos. Yet I assure you that without the ego, all would be love. All would be a singularity. An infinite singularity living, moving, love. The nature and substance of every idea. I didn’t say every thought, every idea. Or carefully we could say every thought of God.

You see, the result of resurrection is the movement into the singularity. The obviousness of the singularity of love relative to everything. It’s something to be greatly desired. But not a thing to desire endlessly. Although it’s unobtainable. It is a thing to desire. Enough to bring you to a point of neglecting to do what blocks the experience of it. And what blocks the experience of it in one form or another is nothing more than the chatter that goes on in your mind. Which amounts to static. Which when what causes it is abandoned. Leaves you in the pristine quietness. Of the mind of God which is your mind.

And in that quietness all that characterizes the mind of God will register with you. And transform you. And cause you to see everything with fresh eyes. And promote your ongoing being without you’re attempting to say “I understand’. Instead of saying, “I understand”, and accumulating your understanding. You will say “It’s obvious and I am curious. I am open-endedly curious. To experience the behold I make all things new. Which is the movement of God. In me. Because I am the host of God. And my only function is to let the movement of God in me constitute my undistorted experience of reality.”

This is the wonderful truth. And although we can talk about the nature of the human mind, the independent ego in very complex terms there’s a very simple way to become free of it. And that is to neglect to employ it. Turn your attention to listening instead of thinking. It’s simple.

I continue to recommend it to every single one of you.
