---
 title: Meeting the need
 audiofn: Meeting_the_need
---

## {{page.title}}

The statement is divine love. Always has met and always will meet every
human need. The father's love. Meets you at whatever level of ignorance
you're currently at. In language that registers with you and meets the
need. That's how pure And unconditional love is. You are never
unreachable. No matter how unpleasant a human being you're being. And no
matter how much you are fighting to maintain your limitations because
whatever they are, are currently giving you a sense of security. The
father's love meets you right where you are. The prodigal son's father
went out and met him on the road on his way home, didn't wait till he
had. demonstrated his commitment to coming home by arriving at home. I
don't care What you've done I don't care how Obtuse and unpleasant and
despicable you've been. If you have a need, The father will meet you.
Right in the middle of whatever level of despicableness you are
embodying. And provide that which will meet your need. Unless you're
playing, catch me if you can. Important point But if you're not playing,
catch me if you can. Your need will be met. Right where you are. It's
very important for you to understand that. And you know what? The day is
going to come when you're going to be able to love each other like that.
Except when somebody's playing Catch Me If You Can. And then you'll be
an attractive nuisance.

