---
 title: Mentoring
 audiofn: Mentoring
---

## {{page.title}}

Let us say a situation is occurring which requires correction. And there
are 2 of you present. Who are Asking God what is appropriate here. In
other words, the two are willing to listen to my voice. Willing to learn
to undo the error. And willing to act to correct it, and one of them.
Finds that the action to correct it involves. Extensive one on one
communication with a brother taking hours of time. And the other, having
listened. And having been willing to learn what was appropriate. and is
willing to act. Finds that it is not appropriate to be involved in that
way. That can seem to be confusing if one is looking for consistency
that in other words, this kind of a situation calls for this kind of
appropriate response. But the one who's being still may be holding a
tone. That makes it easier for the one engaged in the ongoing
interaction to be successful. We're not talking about Coming to an
awareness of a correct action. That will always be that action or will
even be that action for another one involved at the same time in the
same circumstance. The only other thing I want to say at this point is
That your devotion to your brother. Or sister, your willingness to have
an object of your affection. Doesn't just involve a willingness to let
love through. And to become imbued yourself. With a clearer experience
of your brother's divinity. It does involve what I call mentoring. It
does mean involvement. It does mean being willing to act in terms of
witnessing for your brother or witnessing for your sister. Witnessing on
your brother's behalf may mean Speaking up and disagreeing vehemently.
With actions he's engaged in that are governed by his own limited
perception and misunderstanding of what the truth is. It may involve not
arguing with him about what he's doing wrong, but instead talking about
what is true, what is right, what will work. Rather than focusing on
what isn't working. But mentoring means being involved. In a way that
has a beneficial outcome. It is not about sitting there and bathing him
or her in your beneficent love without involvement. I want all of you to
let the word mentor and mentoring stay with you during this coming week.
All of you would love to have a mentor. Why are you here tonight? Extend
that to your brother. Be willing to look at your brother this coming
week. With the concept of yourself as a potential mentor. Remember that
every encounter you have. Can be a mentoring encounter. And then try and
embody that to the best of your ability. And remember that mentoring.
Does not mean enabling your brother. To not be disturbed because you're
behaving outside of his concept of what's right, that's not mentoring.

