---
 title: Miracle impulses
 audiofn: Miracle_impulses
---

## {{page.title}}

Oh wow, miracle impulses. Miracle impulses. I said before That the Holy
Spirit is your divinity held in trust while you dally with the ego. In
other words, the Holy Spirit is that part of yourself which you have
denied. In favor of a tiny definition of yourself. That you wish to
limit yourself to. Now, the fact that you can never be less than whole
means that the wholeness of you that has been denied. will constantly be
asserting itself against the boundary you are using to hold it back. You
see, And this constant insinuation. Into your conscious awareness of the
wholeness of you is a miracle impulse. And miracle impulses are
Constant. Because in spite of the limited Area out of the totality of
your being that you are using to define yourself with, you are whole all
the time. Your limited definition of yourself and your commitment to it
makes it hard for a miracle impulses to reach your awareness. That's why
it's so helpful. To at least occasionally. Be willing to become still
and set them aside and be curious beyond whatever the limits are of your
present sense of yourself because that curiosity is an invitation. For
that of yourself which you have denied. To come into The territory that
you have roped off and said only that which is inside of this rope is
me. Now Pleasurable physical impulses. Our misdirected miracle impulses.
Whether it's orgasm, whether it's sexuality, whether it's a hug, whether
it's a smile directed toward another. These are Conscious attempts. To
bring into your awareness. The Unseparated wholeness of yourself. That
you have denied that you are holding away from yourself. If the
pleasurable impulse is for self-satisfaction. It doesn't help you.
Because although it might be extended toward another, it is not as a
gift to another. It also, because it lacks consideration for another, is
a form of abuse, whether it's mild or intense. An act that is
pleasurable for you may be done so as to influence another or control
another. Again, a form of abuse, and it's all aimed at you. So
absolutely. The giving of uh the expressing of a pleasurable impulse can
be to your disadvantage. It has to do with again the motive whether it's
to get or to give. And as long as As the expression of love. Physically.
is in the form, truly uh the form of a gift where the reason you are
giving it is because you love. Where the reason you are giving it is
because you honor the one you are giving it to. That's all the further
you have to take it in order for it to be beneficial for you. In terms
of your awakening. And not keeping you in the dream. And, and it really
does amount to um A matter of growing up. A child stands always ready to
receive, but when the child grows up. He stands, she stands as a
servant. To give To give genuinely. As a gift with no strings. A gift
that is not given in order to get.

