---
 title: Needs and Miracles
 audiofn: Needs_and_Miracles
---

## {{page.title}}

Yeah. Needs Are always specific. They are not usually specifically what
you think the needs are. But needs themselves. Regardless of how you
interpret them. Are specific And this means that The answer to a need.
The truth. That negates the lack. Is also very specific. And because
it's specific, You have no choice. About what the answer will be. But
the fact is that your need is the evidence of your being out of
alignment with God in one way or another, or in denial of God in one way
or another. And therefore the answer is that which Specifically Point
for point you might say. Negates The belief that is creating the need
negates the denial that's creating the experience of need. You say I'm
having problems and it's because of this and that and the other thing.
Father, help me. Get this, that and the other thing. So that the problem
can be solved. Now It isn't this, that or the other thing that's needed,
of course. What's needed is really very simple, always. It's your piece.
It's you Letting out a sigh. That releases all the tension you've been
carrying. And magnifying. And even valuing at times because of the
benefits it gets you. And so the answer isn't complicated. The answer is
you. Being utterly simple. Letting the simplicity of your Need Of your
lack Register with you And what that almost always means is you saying,
I give up I give up my resistance against the Father. I give up my
resistance against fitting in. I give up my resistance to. Cooperating.
The miraculous is not the result of control. Exercised by you
skillfully. The miraculous is the result of humility. That which happens
when you do this two step. And the miracle Is what you experience there
in the intimacy you experience with God. In that place where God's laws
prevail, nothing else does. And you in the peace and the pleasure. And
the sole satisfaction. Of being at one with your father. And nothing
else And therefore being at one with all of creation. are able to
participate fully and wholly. In the acknowledgement of the awesomeness
of creation. In which you are acknowledging what the miraculous in
everything you see and in which You let the miraculous in. And in which
by virtue of your participating in acknowledging the miraculous. You
facilitate. The miraculous None of this is some sort of private.
Spiritual journey. It's you In your daily life. Recognizing the
miraculous, facilitating the miraculous. And letting them miraculous in
by virtue of involvement. With your brothers and sisters involvement
which does not let the justifications of The absence of miracles to Go
unobjected to. Where you do not allow The uh Inspiration that promotes
miracles. To remain covered over. Because you are speaking up. Moved by
your clarity. That has been the result of your doing the two step on the
spot in your day. It's about involvement. Where you don't let the status
quo remain the status quo. It's about you stepping out of the crab
barrel and turning around and facilitating others leaving the crab
barrel. So that you don't need to feel guilty for your miracles. And no
one else has to feel jealous of your miracles because your miracles are
their miracles and you won't. Be quiet about it until they know it.
Witness for your brothers and sisters. All day long because that is your
function as a holy Son of God or a holy daughter of God. Do it. So that
at the end of the day you can say yes, I was witness to miracles, yes, I
let miracles in. And yes, I was the facilitator of miracles. And
everyone you know who is not experiencing completeness needs. Active
witnesses On their behalfs Witnesses to what is true about them. Nothing
is too good for you. Nothing is too good for your brother. And there's
nothing too good that you could wish for your brother. And take time to
join with the Father to experience the truth of as an experience. So
that you might be with your brother in a brand new way at a brand new
level that inspires him. To have the experience. Of completeness. That
identifies completeness wholeness. Healing Take this to heart God takes
you to heart. And in his heart Completeness forever is yours. Take this
to heart. Share it with your brother. So that he might find completeness
forever. In the completeness forever that you're finding because you let
yourself into the heart of God. It's beautiful. It's simple. But it
requires you not to minimize and justify. The minimalization of the
miraculous.

