---
 title: No crucifixion
 audiofn: No_crucifixion
---

## {{page.title}}

It's helpful Just as it was helpful for there to seem to be crucifixion
and resurrection. It's helpful To talk about The voice for truth and the
voice for fear and making a choice between the two. But crucifixion
never happened. Ultimately resurrection never happened because never for
an instant. Was there an interruption of life? But since everybody At
that time, experienced death as a fact of life. That fact needed to be
addressed. In terms that would register and break the The fixation On
the factualness of death. And introduce a new possibility. So that
everyone was freed up from Total commitment to the actuality of death.
And could let in. The possibility of the uninterruptability, the
eternality of, of the experience of being. It opened the door And so we
talk about making a choice. Between the voice for fear. And the voice
for truth. Which makes it sound like you're a chooser and the voice for
fear is another voice and the voice for truth is God's voice. And all
we're really talking about. Is all of you Daring to Relax enough. To be
at peace enough. To let down your defenses so that something new can
penetrate. And you might say crack you open wider. Like a nut Or a shell
so that more of the infinity of being can register with you so that you
aren't imprisoned by commitments to False beliefs and confusions. that
cause you to behave. In totally erratic and unintelligent ways.

