---
 title: No matter all Spirit
 audiofn: No_matter_all_Spirit
---

## {{page.title}}

Mind spake and form appeared. That's a brief description of creation or
mind speaks and form appears. But understand that this form is not
matter. Mind speaks and recognizes itself. In that act or action. And
it's all mental. It's all mine. And the substance of the experience is
spirit. Not matter. Nothing that you are experiencing right now is
matter. Not the chairs you're sitting on, not the bodies that are
sitting on the chairs. Not the trees. Nothing that you are experiencing
is matter. And therefore, nothing that you are experiencing right now.
is bound by What you would call the laws of matter or physics. Form
follows function. Mind spake and form appeared. Mind spake and function
functioned and was recognizable and identifiable. The movement of God of
creation. is Being The verb being. It is movement. It is function. If
form follows function, it serves function. It renders function visible
and tangible, not materially tangible, but experienable. With what? The
only thing there is mind. And that's what's going on right now for every
single one of you. It's the only thing going on, period. What does this
mean? This means that if a sprinkler head is jammed by a little piece of
metal that is supposed to shift and it's not shifting. that the function
of the idea. It seems that the function of the idea is blocked by a
little piece of metal, matter. And if you think it is matter, you will
stand there and Grouse about having to get into the water while it's
running to try to loosen it up to get it to function. If you will
realize in moments like that. That there is no material sprinkler head
there, that it is an idea which someone allowed to register in his or
her mind. And render it visible. And if you will at the same time
remember. That form follows function. Then you will realize that there
is no material. piece of metal That has the ability to do anything other
than render visible the function. Of the sprinkler head Of the idea. And
you can watch that sprinkler head begin to function properly. Because
There is no matter there. The energy of spirit looked at when your back
is to the altar minus the father's perspective. Appears to be able to
function or not function, to allow or to block. And this could apply to
Uh, the veins in your body, the arteries, um. Uh, the, uh, the flesh of
the arteries themselves. That seem perhaps to be able to change shape
and begin to block the flow of blood. If you think it's matter. You're
going to have to deal with it as matter. You're going to have to
manipulate it. You're going to have to oppose its ability to do
something. That does not identify the function it has. And the functions
it allows. But the moment you are willing to Challenge that And
recognize at least as an idea. That there's no matter to it and that
what you see is simply the visibility of it, the movement of an idea
which God is being at that moment. You then will release. The visibility
From your belief that it is immovable matter. And you will be able to
recognize that spirit, the substance that is spirit. Which is serving
the function. That God has set in place. Can Reconfigure if you will.
Instantaneously. To identify the function that it's rendering visible
and tangible as a conscious experience, not as matter. You really need
to enjoy the opportunities you have daily for reassessing anything that
you think of as matter. And challenge it with the idea, if nothing less.
That if it appears to be matter, it must be pure spirit, and pure
spirit. is unable to act on its own. It can only render visible and
tangible the idea. That God is expressing. This is very important. There
is another aspect I will go into, and that is that when we speak of
energy, Like light from the sun or energy like electricity, you cannot
say that electricity is the energy of spirit. It is A modified
experience of spirit, and it is a material experience of it and the way
you can know is that it has polarities. Spirit is not polarized. The
energy of spirit which is love. It is purely single. It therefore does
not have the capacity to kill. The energy of the sun. Light can seem to
damage your skin. And Uh After all of these centuries of everyone
thriving under the sun. Wearing no clothes whatsoever, now suddenly the
sun can cause cancer. Interesting shift of belief. And everybody buys
into it. This energy that can seem to cause cancer. Uh And uh damage
things is not the energy of spirit. It's not the energy of love that is
light. And you need to be clear on that. Whatever has polarities is
Something you are seeing independent of the Father, it is the way you
are perceiving the only energy there is. When your back is to the altar
and absolutely everything you see with your back to the altar will be
polarized. And why will it be polarized? It will be polarized because
you're attempting to do something impossible, and you're believing that
you're succeeding at it. And so you are in error. And that error will be
reflected in absolutely every part of creation that you're experiencing.
It is like putting on. A pair of polarized glasses. It doesn't change
anything you're looking at, but it causes you to perceive everything
different from what it is. So, again, I encourage you all to have fun
consciously. Approaching everything that you run into. With a
remembrance. That there's not a bit of matter there. And because there's
not a bit of matter there, What you're seeing is incapable. Of operating
at odds with The function which has brought forth or the movement of
creation that has brought forth or the idea of God that spontaneously
brings into manifestation the visibility and tangibility of the idea.
And therefore, This so-called material universe isn't a material
universe. And You cannot possibly be in bondage to it. Form remember
this form follows function. Function the movement of mind. Elicits
without interruption, without delay that which makes that movement
recognizable. Visibility and tangibility. And the only thing the
visibility and tangibility can do is identify the movement of creation,
the movement and presence of God. Form never ends up. Being independent
from That which it is identifying. And the definition of matter is
something which is independent of its source, of its creation. A statue
Carved 200 years ago, you go and look at today and experience as an
object in its own right. And the one who carved it is irrelevant. But
that's not the nature of creation. That which authors All that is is
always offering it. Creation is current. And creation in every single
moment being inseparable from its source. Has only one thing it can do.
Render visible and tangible or experiible that source now. Why am I
harping on this? Because you need to become free of Your bondage to what
you think form is. So that a sprinkler head returns to its function
immediately without repair. So that a heart Straining At circulating the
blood in your body can return instantly. To identifying the idea of
which it is the visibility and tangibility, the function that it is
rendering visible. A function That is a current idea in the mind of God.
And which is incapable. Of Actually becoming embodied as something that
has polarities. That's something that can work or not work, that can
work well or work poorly. That can If it works well. Allow you to
survive and if it works poorly kill you. You see, And I want you to have
fun with this. What a delightful thing to to become free of the bondage
you have been experiencing. To matter Which is nothing more than spirit.
An idea A non-material presence. That you have chosen to look at. With a
peculiar bias. That then Keeps you bound This is part of your emerging
freedom. This is part of waking up. And I, I'm encouraging you to start
breaking the habit. And the more you can Look at a thing and say, that's
not matter, that's spirit. That's an idea Well, you know, you know that
at some point it was an idea. Take it a step further and realize that if
it exists at all, it's an idea in the mind of God. Pure spirit And that
which the mind of God, which is the only mind there is universally, has
formed. It was like its source. Pure idea. Recognizable to the mind
which formed it. And therefore there's not a bit of matter to it. If you
engage in this. Often during your day. It will begin. If not to Create a
new groove quickly to weaken the resolve you have in your mind. As far
as your sureness that you know what everything is. And it will begin to
undo. The confidence that you have that it's all matter. None of it is
matter.

