---
 title: No questions or answers
 audiofn: No_questions_or_answers
---

## {{page.title}}

You're not here to have questions or answers. You only have questions
and you only try to answer them yourself when you are experiencing. An
unconsciousness of truth and unconsciousness of reality, and
unconsciousness of the kingdom of heaven that's the only thing going on.
That's why unity. Occurs When you are willing to yield to the Holy
Spirit. Because when you're willing to yield to the Holy Spirit, You are
withdrawing investment of energy and faith and trust. In the various
parts of you. They can argue with each other. And that can have Various
perceptions of reality. You're one, you are single. And you can look at
this person and say, I love him and you can look at someone else and
say, I can't stand his guts. Well, there's conflict right there. And
someone else you say, hm. They're a pretty good friend and another one.
They're friend, but I wouldn't trust my life to them, and you place
value judgments. Of varying kinds on various people or various
environments and so on. And what this is expressing is an inconsistency
within you of your capacity to be love. At all times You see, And this
is called fragmentation. And depending upon the amount of love you are
willing to extend and embrace another with will govern how you
experience that individual. And it will be conflicted. But the point is
this that You As God is being you. Are the presence of love. Which
constantly looks with love and consistently sees. The Christ and the
truth in everything your eyes fall upon. Now, how do you get from a
fragmented. Conflicted lover. To The state of being that God is
manifesting there as you. You do it by finding another source for
evaluating everything than your own fragmented mind. Which is the Holy
Spirit or your guide or anyone who is awake. And then you lean heavily.
On their judgment. And you stay with it. So that you might get the feel
of it. So that you might remember that this state of being, this state
of mind, is your natural state of mind and represents you most truly so
that you never abandon it again for. And evaluated love, you see.


