---
 title: No such you exists
 audiofn: No_such_you_exists
---

## {{page.title}}

You don't have a mind of your own, except in your imagination, and that
doesn't mean that you have a mind of your own. When it dawns on you that
you don't have a mind of your own and they don't even intellectually as
a thought and not a knowing when it dawns on you. That you don't have a
mind of your own and they don't have a mind of their own. Then you know
there's nothing to overcome. And there is no one there with a right to
see things the way they want to see them. That's part of the illusion
too. And so As part of being the salvation of the world. As far as being
an agent for change is concerned. As far as being that presence which
corrects illusion. You must not only recognize that They are suffering
from an illegitimate imposition. You must recognize that they don't
actually have a mind. to make up their illusion. And embody it. That
they themselves still Exist just as you do right now. In your pristine
state. Of God presencing Himself slash herself right where you are. In
which there's no mind to have its illusions or its perceptions. You need
to exonerate your brother and sister, not only from the belief that
they're suffering from, but the suggestion that they are capable of
believing. Of having a perception. Actually, Of something God didn't
make. Or of having a perception. On their own ridiculous words. You
can't have a perception on your own because no such you exists. So in
glorifying God, you are exonerating. The so-called one capable of being
willful and having private disturbed perceptions of reality, you
exonerate them from this. In the realization That they don't even have
such a mind. It's going to take ages to change. They don't have a mind
that you have to convince. They don't have a mind that you have to
struggle with. Because if there's anything right there where they are,
all there is there is God presencing Himself or herself. Now I am giving
you ideas. that prime you for Being less resistance to the influx of the
experience of knowing the truth. But but realize you have the capacity
to provide direction. To your thoughts. And provide that direction so
that as I said, you don't just flow. With the illusion And thus fail to
fulfill your function. Of Correcting the illusion. Why? So that there is
no further apparent evidence. of anything but the presence of God there.
What it means is that you have a capacity to reflect. Nothing other than
God. To be the presence of nothing other than the father's point of
view. And thereby magnify what God is being. Another way of saying
glorifying God right there. Where You thought you saw an illusion. And
you thought you saw somebody else seeing an illusion about themselves.
And which if you weren't careful, You would give them the right to do.
Because you thought they had a mind of their own just like you. Let that
mind be in you. Let that mind be in you that was also in Christ Jesus,
it was said. That's what it's about. is letting the only mind there is
the presence of mind that is God being conscious of His infinite
creation. Let that be in you because that is all there is of you and to
you. That's coming back home.


