---
 title: No spillovers
 audiofn: No_spillovers
---

## {{page.title}}

The question was presented. How much of reality Spills over into our
dream or your dream. Of reality Again This suggests a split that isn't
there, as though you're having some sort of autonomous dream. That is
entirely different and separate from reality. When the fact is, Your
dream is nothing more than an altered perception of reality. It is
reality perceived with a bias. You have not succeeded in going someplace
like to sleep and Having a dream. That is entirely separate and apart
from reality. What I am referring to as the dream. It is nothing more
than a biased perception of reality. It's reality you're seeing.
Unclearly So, what does this mean? It means you don't have to wake up
from the dream before you can see reality. Reality is what is in your
face, as I've said over and over. Reality is what is confronting you at
every instant. So reality doesn't spill over into your dream. It's what
every single one of you is using as the basis for. A biased, slanted.
Distorted perception. That you're claiming is Real. Reality is what is
confronting you, how you are perceiving it. Or misperceiving it is what
constitutes the illusion, the dream. And because that's so, you don't
have to wake up before you can see reality. You can start with what's
right in front of your face. And say That's not matter. That spirit And
is pure spirit and is embodying the will of God, the nature of God, the
love of God at this very instant.

