---
 title: Only Mind
 audiofn: Only_Mind
---

## {{page.title}}

There isn't anything but mind. And that is why I keep saying. That
everything you're seeing is an idea in the mind of God and that all
ideas are perfectly tangible. And experienable. To the mind which formed
them. But just because they are tangible to the mind that forms them
doesn't mean they matter. They are pure spirit. What you're experiencing
right there is your body at this moment. Is not the ultimate truth. Your
perception and experience of it is flawed. By the fact that you are not
giving your attention to it with God. So that God might reveal to you
what he is being right there. No miscreation ever becomes real. You see
what you believe. But the corker of it is that you believe what you see.
That Locks you in. Until you have the curiosity to see what it really
is. It will take something. To distract you from the conviction of your
belief. And what it will take is curiosity. All the time reality.
Unperturbed. By all of these imaginings. Awaits your discovery of it as
it is. When you're looking at the altar, it's illumination. illuminates
you. And renders your Committed beliefs. Invalid Effortlessly And once
they are seen as invalid they are seen as not useful, and none of you
holds on to anything that you don't find useful. It is abandoned
effortlessly. Be aware That you see what you believe. So indeed you must
dare to look at Whatever the dis ease is. And recognize and be willing
to recognize. That it is an illusion. Caused by Seeing what you have
believed in your mind first. And then believing. The result As though
it's separate and different from your mind. Because until you realize
that. Only mind. Has the capacity. To be creative. You won't be able to
get free of Believing what you're seeing. And changing your mind. By
being willing to turn around to the altar and say God, What is this
really? What is this thing I call body really? What is this thing I call
world and universe really? If it's the effulgence. The manifestation. Of
God. Being the movement of creation constantly. Then You're all in store
for the wonderful experience of having it revealed to you as what it
really is. If you Realize that whatever it might be, whatever disease it
might be. is nothing more. Then a mental Distortion That was caused by
the adopting of certain ideas. And a commitment to those ideas, you will
then have the means. Of being miracle ready. Because you won't fight the
disease, you'll turn around to God and say, What's the real meaning? And
you will ask it. With the conscious desire to have your belief replaced
with the conscious experience of what it really is. The direct
experience of what it really is.


