---
 title: Only the error is vulnerable
 audiofn: Only_the_error_is_vulnerable
---

## {{page.title}}

Well, now, if only the error is actually vulnerable. Then Whenever you
are feeling vulnerable. It can't be you that's feeling vulnerable.
Because you're not an error, you're not an illusion. So when you are
feeling vulnerable, You can dare to not honor the apparent call for
action to protect yourself, which is defense. You can dare to say, ah,
something real must be happening here because my ego is afraid. So I
choose to give my attention to whatever this something real is that's
scaring my ego so badly. I choose to align myself with the truth that's
uncovering some falsity about my ego that's scaring my ego to death.
Interesting choice of words scaring my ego to death by Aligning yourself
with the truth that is causing your ego to feel vulnerable. You do not
strengthen the ego in that moment of its weakness, and it can fade more
easily and you will become free of. Its grasp And its call for you to
act defensively on its behalf. Aligning yourself with whatever it is
that is frightening your ego will bring you your peace. You are in a
state of grace. When you neglect to feed the wild animal, when you
neglect to feed and nurture the ego by witnessing on its behalf and
defending it. In defenselessness your safety lies, and that becomes
obvious when When you choose for your peace. At exactly the moment that
the ego is screaming the loudest that defense and attack are called for.
Grace You know what grace is unearned fulfillment. unearned bliss.
Undeserved joy. unearned innocence. That's grace, and it's your
birthright. It's your birthright. If your misperceptions make others
vulnerable to their own misperceptions. Then your clear experience of
what they divinely are makes what they divinely are vulnerable to
clarification. Vulnerable means. susceptible to I'm going to say
susceptible to a clarity. Whether the clarity is a clarity about
falsehood or a clarity about truth. Remember That all of you are
presenting your best concept of yourself to the world. All of you are
not presenting the total truth about yourselves to the world, but the
divine one that you are is present right now as you present a more
limited form. Of who you are to the world. I am addressing the divine
one that you are, and you could say that the divine one that you are
that sits there right now that you are not experiencing consciously.
becomes vulnerable to The reinforcement that I am providing. That allows
for a sudden shift of perception to occur. You can be vulnerable to
good, in other words. Don't think of vulnerability as a negative.
Vulnerability means that you're not well defended against what's coming
toward you. You see, and in effect, everything that I'm doing with all
of you is to help you feel undefended against the conscious experience
of the truth about you.

