---
 title: Orbs
 audiofn: Orbs
---

## {{page.title}}

I, I have been speaking for a long time about the fact that all you are
confronted with, no matter how you are interpreting what you're seeing
is reality with a capital R or the kingdom of heaven. But we'll use the
word reality with a capital R. Reality is The mind of God experienced
without any misperceptions associated with it. The world that you see,
what you call the world is reality. Perceived with misperceptions. But
it's still reality. Absolutely everything that you experience, see,
touch, taste, smell is energy. And the energy is spirit capital Spirit.
The substance of God. And this energy is light. And this energy is love.
I have suggested to you that as you have curiosity, To look at what you
call the world. And see what more is there than what you have been
letting register with you. That initially you will begin to see light
streaming off the edges of leaves or fingers or um Papers or lampshades
or any object that you might be looking at. Because As you know, light
radiates, ah, and I'm not surprised that you say that you love these
orbs because they are love and they are loving you. And they are indeed
glimpses of the energetic nature of all that is. Now the fact is that
what you call empty space between objects cannot possibly be empty. The
energy of spirit is there as well. And So You would find that if you
were seeing reality. And all the suns in the universe were extinguished.
It still would be full of light. Because creation has no vacuums. The
presence of the movement of God has no voids. And so the energy of
spirit that is love that is light. would be experienced as eternal
illumination. Now, when, when you're ready to see evidences. Of the
substance that is spirit. You will begin to have experiences like I
described or experiences like you're having of orbs. They're not
physical phenomenon. They are pure spirit. And Because their substance.
Is light slash love. They're always loving you. They're always
beneficent. There is no call for fear or superstitious suppositions
about them, and I wonder why he's the only one in the group who is
experiencing them. I, I say that to cause everyone else to say, well, I
want to see them too, rather than, well, he must have a special talent.
It's time for everybody to begin to be experiencing more and more of the
evidence of the movement of God. As what God is being there instead of
what you have believed was there. It's time for all of you to be
beginning to have new and very different experiences.


