---
 title: Origin al sin
 audiofn: Origin-al-sin
---

## {{page.title}}

The authority problem. I The original sin The origin of sin. The False
belief about one's origin. The original sin is not the first sin. It is
the sin, the belief, the Misperception of your origin. It's the original
sin. It's the original false belief. And the authority problem is that
problem. We're talking about. Challenging the wish to be the author of
reality. Yourself So that in the willingness to abandon the wish to be
the author, you can turn toward the author with a capital A and say, I
want to know. The truth About all that is including me. The marvelously
wonderfully insulting truth is. That you don't have any authority. You
don't need any authority. Because it's not your function to have
authority. It's your function to be that which recognizes. The authority
of God. In the movement of being. That constitutes Creation As The same
mind that is God. Recognizing himself. In the movement of creation as
the source. And condition And visibility and tangibility of creation.
It's your function. To let God's mind be in you. So that you have no
other consciousness of anything. than that which God is having. Of his
infinite being. When God sees what he has made. And recognizes himself
in it. He's glorifying himself. And that conscious experience is the
definition of sanity. And that experience is Your function. It's your
birthright. It's you in your right mind. Not as a private little
separate part having its own mind that can be in its right mind. It's
you letting the mind of God. Be in your mind. So that your Puny little
mind takes on its full stature. It's sanity. And you become God
Recognizing himself. In the movement of creation. When that experience
is allowed by you. And your mind is transformed. You will still relate
to each other as well as all of the brotherhood. And you will relate to
each other with more beauty and more harmony and more kindness and more
thoughtfulness and more involvement. And every aspect. Of your
involvement with each other, with your world, with the universe will be
something that you cherish. Because it is so rich. And so full Of
meaning


