---
 title: Partnering
 audiofn: Partnering
---

## {{page.title}}

You can't get back home alone. Because what keeps you from experiencing
being at home or being awake is the practiced right. To think for
yourself, to be independent. To be separate Therefore, The correction
can only come in the form of joining with someone else. Because that's
the only thing that breaks the isolation. And that's the only thing that
opens the door, so to speak, for your mind to come back into its natural
sanity. Where it isn't shutting out things and saying this is me and
that's not me. So You can go through the rest of this lifetime not
partnering with anyone and perhaps not feeling particularly miserable,
but at the end of this lifetime. You will still be faced with the only
choice that is truly Contributive to your awakening, and that is to join
and to join with commitment. So If you wish to dream a little longer.
Dream a little longer. It's going to become more and more difficult to
dream. Because more and more people are going to be engaged in waking
up, and part of what has made it easy to dream and to feel isolated is
We'll say that is a large group of like-minded individuals who have
apparently given Depth and, and the strength to the state of dreaming.
But as more and more withdraw from that, it's going to be harder and
harder to maintain it. And uh the fact is that you're not likely to get
through this lifetime, still dreaming or still being happy being alone.
Because I'm going to say the work everyone else is doing. is, is going
to begin to free you from your dream whether you want to be freed from
it or not, and you will begin to long for. A partner, companionship. I
encourage you to Explore partnering, explore companioning. Even if you
just do it. As a simple Expression of curiosity.

