---
 title: Penetrating the dream
 audiofn: Penetrating_the_dream
---

## {{page.title}}

There occurs in the Dream there occurs in the experience of those who
have turned away from the altar. A penetrating Event Where someone shows
up. Who doesn't forget who he is. In the process of showing up. And he
begins to express the truth, protect the truth by sharing it. And
educating those who are willing to listen. To the truth I didn't come.
And attack everyone's position. I came and declared the truth. About
being. Those who thought they were teachers. And who had gained stature
in their community as teachers of truth. Perceived what I was saying. As
an attack Because it undermined Their best perceptions. which they had
brought into play. As a means of Gaining Some sort of solid defense
against The inhumanity of man. The conflicted nature of existence and so
on and these. were rabbis and priests, well, Religious teachers, even
philosophers. And so I shared the truth. I defended the truth by
expressing it. Instead of Calling into question. The character Of those
who were teaching otherwise. And you know what, There were quite a few
who got the message. And taught it. And At the end of my time with you.
A crucifixion occurred. And as is Sometimes Forgotten, a resurrection.
Occurred This was a gift. This penetration of the dream. And this
presence in the dream of one who didn't forget who he was. Who's
Expression of what is true. Helped to kindle the fire of awareness in
many of the listeners. So that they began to Remember The truth as well.
This one Went through a crucifixion. Not at the hand of God, but at the
hand of man. But because I was not confused about my identity. And I was
not confused about the fact that I didn't have a private identity of my
own, but my identity was the very presence of God being God right there
looking like me. I did not experience death. And because I did not
experience death, I was able to provide evidence, evidence, tangible
evidence to everyone else. That Death is not a fact. And that you don't
need to be afraid of it.

