---
 title: Persevering in listening
 audiofn: Persevering_in_listening
---

## {{page.title}}

When you're not in the way, you're saying in so many words, aside from
my best judgments and my best reasonings and my best thinking. And my
best ability to come to a conclusions. God What is the next step for me.
You get out of the way by not entering into the process other than
saying help in so many words, you see. And then listening. And being
open for for the answer to come in any in any number of ways, whether
it's a direct awareness in words, whether it's an image that comes to
you, whether it's something you notice keeps coming to your attention on
the radio throughout the day. Coincidentally, But be open and when you
feel as though you are. Getting the gist of a direction then. Don't jump
in there yourself, say, am I getting this right? Am I hearing this
correctly? Is this, is this the direction I should proceed in? You get
out of the way by checking in with some someone other than yourself
frequently. When you're checking in with yourself all the time, you're
in the way. There are many ways in which Let us say the Holy Spirit can
use. All occasions to, to register with you what you need to know,
whether it's in the music on the radio. Or saying that you keep hearing
from various people or even overhear other people saying. There are many
ways. The Holy Spirit is not handicapped. And so be completely open. And
the key is Persist You're not used to asking for help because you've all
been conditioned to be self-sufficient. And so When you first begin to
reach out for an answer. It's like the first time you jump off of a high
dive or a high diving board. You know that what you need to dive well is
to be relaxed. But diving this tremendous length before you hit the
water is so foreign that every muscle in your body tenses up. It's not a
sign that you shouldn't dive. Just be aware that Because it's not what
you're familiar with. It's like every fiber of your mind spontaneously
resists. And so it seems hard to do, but like the diver, you dive off.
You find out that maybe it's only half as scary as you thought it was
going to be, and you do it again, and each time you do it. The less
frightening it becomes because You're more familiar with the dynamics of
it until finally you can jump off, dive off. Without fear, with joy,
with, with glee, with whatever. You persist in reaching out and mostly
you persist in doing what it takes. To have less resistance. To an
answer penetrating your resistance. You just persist. If it's the
father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom, then the gift the Father
is giving is A constant It's, it's constantly being presented.
Therefore, It's natural for you to stand in receipt of it because that's
the way it works. God did not set up the way things work. So that he
could make a gift that would never be received. So it's part of the law
of being. It's part of the way things inevitably work that it's your
function to be in receipt. So we're not talking about listening for
guidance as some sort of Special weird, out of the ordinary
accommodation. Because you're so stupid. That something really special
had to be called for. It, it is simply representative of the way it
works. The fact that you do not exist to be independent, isolated.
Self-authorizing entities. That wasn't ordained to work. So What was
ordained to work was God expressing Himself as and to His creation. And
his creation receiving the communication. And in receiving the
communication, Experiencing Their inseparability from their source from
the father. And therefore their inseparability from all that the Father
is extending to His creation. So when I say to persist in listening, I
am saying persist in what is assured to work. And understand that this
is indeed the way you break your isolation. This is the way you break
through the wall of the prison that has kept you isolated by your
persisting in inviting connection. With something other than your total
self-confidence, you see.

