---
 title: Philanthropist - Mentors
 audiofn: Philanthropist_-_Mentors
---

## {{page.title}}

A philanthropist has a dedication. As a general rule, Their life is
given over to make significant change for the better in that brothers or
sister's life. And so his brothers and his sisters. Are the object of
their attention. Those of you who don't think of yourselves as
philanthropists. And as a result, Your brothers aren't on your mind. In
the sense of wanting to be constantly attentive. To your brother's or
your sister's needs. To see if there is any way in which you might be
able to contribute to the meeting of those needs. Now, you don't have to
have a lot of money in order to have a commitment to your brothers and
sisters. And to be available to them. To gift them. With that which will
be of value and benefit to them. The fact is, That No matter how much or
little. Of earthly value. You think you have You have a divine function.
To look into your brother's eyes and remember God, to look into your
brother's eyes and see God. Instead of his concept of himself or your
best concept of him. That's being a philanthropist. It could also be
called being a mentor. How many of you can identify yourselves as a
mentor. Some of you can. Some of you are formal mentors like a big
brother. And some of you are not formal mentors, but you do engage in
what, involving yourselves with others. In time consuming, energy
consuming, feeling involving ways which by virtue of their expression
cause those who are being mentored. to feel better about themselves. To
dare to be more fully what they are. Or to Feel that love is a reality
in this world. And you've proven it to them, and they are ever so
grateful to you for it. Because they recognize the love. Of the
involvement with you. And the absence of manipulation and self-seeking.
On your part. If you want the holy instant to happen, Then you've got to
shift from getting to giving. You've got to shift to being willing to be
a mentor. A mentor, gifts. And in effect replenishes what seems to have
been absent. Where there was a vacancy, it is now full because of the
gift made, the gift of love, and the investment of actual time, energy,
and feeling on behalf of a brother. You're here To be philanthropic.
You're here to be a mentor. You're here to give of the very best in you.
So that the very best in your brother and sister can be illuminated and
brought forth. And so this brings us back to The initial questions. Are
any of you able to identify yourselves as mentors or philanthropists?
Are any of you able to identify yourselves as that which has as its
purpose and function? And which is the derivative of meaning for your
existence. The capacity to give. And the willingness to actually do it.
By caring enough to relate to your brothers and sisters in a way that
allow you at the end of the day to say yes there is 1 or there are 5.
who have benefited from my involvement with them. Because I was willing
to do the two-step. And say Yes, Father, I yield to you. And your
perspective fill me with it. I am willing to take the time. To be with
my brother in a way that allows the truth to come forth. Even if it is a
little bit strenuous. Even if it takes time up from other things I would
rather be doing. I am beginning to realize that the other things I would
rather be doing don't involve involvement with my brother. And therefore
do not involve anything that is essential to my waking up. The other
things I would rather do contribute in no way to my salvation. Now, I'm
not just sitting here throwing around spiritual words because we're
having a spiritual talk. I'm using words that you use. And even if you
might not use them often, the word salvation has meaning for you, and
you know that sooner or later you wish to experience salvation. But at
the moment, you can take a little more suffering. It's not quite an
urgent thing yet to you. To squarely look your salvation in the face and
find out what you need to do. To have it. I'm gonna back up here. Start
now to practice your little part in separating out the holy instant. You
will receive very specific instructions as you go along. But you know
what? In order to get the instructions, you've got to be willing to say,
hey. I I'm going to become a mentor. Hey, I'm going to become a
philanthropist. I'm going to change my mental framework. So that my
everyday includes a desire to notice. Needs that my brother's having.
And where I can be of help, I will. Set down what I'm doing. And help
Involve myself with them. As I am led by virtue of my listening.


