---
 title: Proving God
 audiofn: Proving_God
---

## {{page.title}}

The scariest part of uh A miracle is that it proves there's a God.
Something none of you really wants to find out for sure. It's much
easier to believe that there is a God and hope there is a God and give
lip service to this God that you believe in. and have hope about than it
is. To have the actual experience of God. For any of a number of
reasons, but the most significant reason you don't want to know that
there really is a God. is because You will know unequivocally that
you're not in charge. That you have no authority of your own. That you
therefore do not have any of the characteristics of Strength and
integrity. that have been defined by the mutually agreed upon
definitions. And to which you have brought full commitment. You are
afraid that if there really is a God. And you are incapable of defending
yourself because you have no authority. That you will die. Because
survival requires you to be able to defend yourself. And the problem
here is That You are looking at the approach to God. As though you
really are the mortal you believe you are. And as The one who
participated in the fall by saying my will be done, not thine. And
therefore there will be punishment, but all of this conflicted. Penalty
ridden, fear of facing God. arises out of the fact that when you are not
experiencing God. All that God is. will appear to be polarized.
Therefore, Capable of providing you with some good, but also with a lot
of bad omnipotent bad. When the fact is that when you yield to God, And
you dare to let God be glorified in you by not presenting any other
presence than what God is being there. There will be no experience of
vulnerability, no experience of judgment. No experience of penalty
having to be paid. The only reason the approach to God appears to be
fraught with Distress is because you are still looking through your
distressed glasses, because you're still identified with your commitment
to the mutually agreed upon definitions. And you're still committed to
the value that everyone around you that you are joined in these mutually
agreed upon definitions with. are what provide you with Your strength
and integrity. You have more trust in everyone else's opinions than you
do, risking the chance that maybe there really is a God and this God is
love and you are his offspring. You are him, you are God expressed. And
therefore incapable of experiencing polarity. And therefore safe and
therefore, Pure And therefore The presence of integrity. And therefore
invulnerable because there is no other presence.

