---
 title: Pure spirit right now
 audiofn: Pure_spirit_right_now
---

## {{page.title}}

When you discover That what you thought you had done. In your
independence from the Father. You never did succeed in doing. And
therefore you're not guilty of it. You will then become privy to What
really was going on all the time. That you thought you were successfully
distorting it into something else, for which you probably will end up
being guilty. So It expunges the material record. In other words,
retroactively. It undoes your misperceptions. It undoes the
misperceptions which you were committed to. That kept you from seeing
reality creation occurring. In your past, and what was really occurring
becomes immediately available to you unclouded by the misperceptions
that you have held in memory. What dissolves is the misperception. The
illusion doesn't dissolve because the illusion never was. Quote
physically present, unquote. The only thing that is ever physically
present is the energy of spirit. Identifying perfectly creation as God
is being it. That's the only thing that is ever quote physically
present, unquote. I say it that way so that you might understand that
what you're calling physical isn't physical. It's purely spiritual right
now. It's purely the energy of spirit which is the presence of love.
Loving and identified as that which Causes God to be recognizable to
Himself and therefore to you. So a material world isn't going to
dissolve. The scales are going to fall from your eyes that caused you to
see a material world right where the kingdom of heaven was. And Filled
with The energy of spirit which is love. Identifying The mind of God.
Infinitely And exquisitely And perfectly In identifiable form. Meaning
Identifiable to the mind that formed them. Without ever ceasing to be
the energy of spirit configured. In a way that is recognizable. And
experien.

