---
 title: Question to ask every night
 audiofn: Question_to_ask_every_night
---

## {{page.title}}

Wondered how can I do this? How can I do? But Raj is saying, it's my
birthright to do, my nature to do. Well, here's a way to start. Every
night when you go to bed. Ask yourselves the question. Who Did I blessed
today. As a result of my involvement with them. And let's refine that a
little bit, make it a little bit less nebulous. How many or who? that I
encountered in my day. Has felt blessed. By his or her encounter with
me. You see, it's important for you not to Be giving the definitions. Oh
well. She had to have felt blessed after what I did for her. He must
have felt blessed. Because such wonderful things happened. No, it isn't
what you determine blessing to be, it's what the other determines
blessing to be. This question If you will discipline yourself enough to
ask it every night. And ask it as though it's a serious question,
deserving an honest answer. will help to bring your attention to where
it needs to be. In order to engage in The act of willingness. That
causes the holy instant. In which awakening can occur. You cannot get
into the kingdom of heaven all by yourself, and you can't get into the
kingdom of heaven by virtue of how you choose to think. It's so simple.
You get into the kingdom of heaven as a result of an involvement with a
brother. And involvement with a sister. Not just any old involvement.
I'm talking about an involvement. In which You have given the very best
of what you have to give. By giving it from the place of willingness to
know what God would have you say and From a place where you are
behaving, how God would have you behave. Because For some reason it's
important to you. Not to be alone And to be involved with another in a
way that truly blesses. Blesses by Confirming to him or her. That love
actually exists. In the universe. And that this love is not off at a
distance but intimately present with him or with her. If You do not have
the intent. To bless a brother, at least one. During the day every day.
You're not fulfilling your purpose. You're not aligning yourself with
The atonement. You're not Bringing anything to bear upon your
experience. To cause awakening No matter how many loving things you've
done.

