---
 title: Radical idealism
 audiofn: Radical_idealism
---

## {{page.title}}

Witnessing for someone. has nothing to do with how you feel about that
person. And for the most part, your feelings about other people aren't
coming from the best in you. They aren't coming from A place of a larger
perspective than what we'll call the human perspective. Your task is to
be like a teacher. Who witnesses to the potential Rather than the
presentation that individual is putting forth. Your task in witnessing
for your brother is to witness to the truth. Your task is to know the
truth. Ye shall know the truth. And the truth shall make you free. It
not only makes you free, it contributes to the freedom of your brother
who needs to have the truth known about him rather than your witnessing
to the worst in him and confirming that. And I want to reiterate the
fact that it is impossible for you to have a thought alone. There is
only one mind. And your thought Every thought you have, we will say
weighs in the balance. And you're witnessing to the truth, your
willingness to know the truth about those who are expressing the worst
in them. has a healing effect. It changes the balance of things for
everyone. As I said before, it blesses the world, the truth you are
knowing. And What blesses the world blesses you. So the blessing you
give. is the blessing you will get back. What you do is you take all the
feelings you have about them and you set them aside for a moment. And in
that moment that you take, you contemplate the truth about them. And the
truth about them is that they couldn't draw a breath. They couldn't have
existence for a single moment without God. We're talking about
translating radical idealism into practical realism. That's what
witnessing for your brother means. That's what knowing the truth about
your brother means. Because the truth that God is all seems like a
radically idealistic idea. When the fact is it's the absolute truth. And
what you want to see is that radical idealism or what seems to you to
be. pure fantasy maybe. That God is all and there is nothing beside God.
It's taking that radical idealism, recognizing it's the actual fact, and
that anything less than that that's presented to you is not the truth.
And therefore staying with the fact in your mind relative to your
brother. It amounts to correcting ignorance. So knowing the truth about
your brother is something you do in spite of the way your brother is
behaving. You've got to hold to the fact that the capacity is there to
understand the truth. You've also got to understand that no matter how
obtuse anyone gets in the presentation of their ignorance. You can't
afford to abandon your willingness to witness for the truth. Because you
know what, as I've said before, if you're not awake right now, Then you
are resisting. The understanding The insight. That would constitute
waking up. And as I've said before, you're worth my repeatedly
confronting you with the truth with love. You persist in acknowledging
the truth that goes beyond the current presentation, the current
ignorance, and you do it knowing that the capacity is there for everyone
to get it. And that's love. Love is persisting in correcting ignorance.
By providing greater clarity with love. To witness to the best in your
brother. is to be a brighter light yourself. And if your light is
brighter because it isn't covered up with your ignorance or your
emotional reactions, then the whole world is blessed and in the greater
light of clarity. Transformation can occur. Remember Witnessing on
behalf of your brother. Has nothing to do with liking or disliking him.
It has to do with caring enough. To contemplate the truth. The radically
idealistic truth about them. Right in the face of their behavior. This
is love which is transformational. Persisting in it translates what
seems to be radical idealism into practical realism. That you call
healing. Transformation. But ultimately The reason for your employing A
practice of knowing the truth about your fellow man is so that you will
become so unconflicted within yourself. That there's no resistance to
the penetration of God's perspective. And when that insight comes, you
will have feelings, but they will be feelings of unutterable love. You
will feel their innocence. And that's where the real transformation. Can
occur that's radical transformation. But to begin with, set aside the
way you feel about so and so. And then witness to the very best in them.
Which is the God in them. And abide with that and don't let yourself
become distracted by all the arguments that your ego can present to you
to the contrary. What the world needs now is love, more love. And love
is your willingness to witness for your brother in spite of his
behavior. Or your sister in spite of hers. At the moment you don't
really have the luxury. To indulge in ego reactions. Because Your
willingness to witness for your brother based upon the actual truth
about him is sorely needed. You're at a point where you really can't
afford to be wishy-washy about it. Your brother needs it. Urgently and
you need it urgently. It's not a time to fool around with metaphysical
principles. It's time to put them into practice. It's time to discover
that your ego reactions are not more important. Then knowing the truth.
And that your ego reactions will only delay the transformation that
everyone is on the threshold of. Transformation Transformation is
positive. I'm talking about evolution, not devolution. I'm talking about
more, not less. It's time for the end of ignorance. That's what it's
time for the end of.

