---
 title: Raj Current
 audiofn: Raj_Current
---

## {{page.title}}

How do you get in the flow? By saying help By abandoning The belief that
you are an independent mind. An independent self-sufficient entity. And
saying I know there's something bigger than me. I know I didn't create
myself. And whatever it is that's responsible for my Existence I would
like to connect with him I would like it to show me how to be in harmony
with it. Help Whatever it is. That's bigger than me and that is the
reason for my existing. Help me I don't want to be unconscious of you
any longer. I'm going to stop the struggle. He And then shut up so you
can hear the response. It's like, stop swimming so that you can feel the
current. And so that you can feel the way it embraces you and holds you
and moves you and so that your mind is free to pay attention to where
the movement is taking you. If you're swimming upstream, the current is
your enemy. If you relax, the current becomes your ally. It becomes your
servant. It doesn't serve you to give you what you want. But it serves
you. By getting you where it's taking you. Insulting to the ego, but
hey. Do you want to go where the ego has suggested it can get you, but
can't? Or do you want to yield to The movement of God. That can get you.
To the place where God is all that you're seeing. And experiencing As
the center and circumference of you and all it is. In which bliss. Is
your experience? You've got to decide which is more important to you,
and I promise you, you will do what is most important to you. And so if
you continue to have a struggle, you may know that at the moment that is
what is most important to you. It's most important to you to swim
upstream or at an angle. To some degree against the current. But at
least you know what the answer is. The answer is give up the struggle,
turn over on your back and float. Yield to the current. Discover that
you weren't meant to have any more authority over the situation than the
leaf. What is your function then? Your function is to pay attention to
the trip. The valleys The scenery Everything that the movement of the
current brings into your experience and what is it going to bring into
your experience, the kingdom because It's the current's good pleasure to
give you the kingdom. I promise you that when you yield to the movement
of God. scenery that is going to come to you. Is going to be phenomenal.

