---
 title: Raj pump
 audiofn: Raj_pump
---

## {{page.title}}

The kingdom of heaven, reality. is overflowing The uniqueness Enjoy
being in the margin. The main text of the page is. What it is because
Everyone there Is trying to be alike, is trying to fit in is uh
succeeding in. Not being unique. Which is a great loss. You might say
that reality is all in the margins. Dare to be your glorious self. Dare
to be unapologetically you. You're not here to conform to someone else's
concept of how you ought to be. You are here to conform to But God would
have you be Which means you're here to let, to allow the full expression
of God into expression on his terms. If you are here, To be the
transformational presence of God. Then You're going to conform to what
God is expressing as you. And by conforming to what God is being right
there where you are. You will become a transformational presence. You
can become an inspiration to those who are caught in. Conforming. So
that they can break free of it themselves. So don't labor under the idea
that you've got to fit in. You fit in by bringing the utter originality
of your being. Into the picture. That's the way you fit in on God's
terms. Be appropriate in each moment. According to your best inner sense
of what is appropriate. It's simple. Everyone who's in the main text and
not marginalized is joining a mutual agreement to be untrue to
themselves. So there's a mutual dream state going on. And their
divinity, their specific gift. Is lost is covered up. And ends up being
the bubbly packed down under the fat cork. So be yourself and inspire
the bubbly in them to push against the court. And feel your own joy.

