---
 title: Raj crystallization
 audiofn: Raj_crystallization
---

## {{page.title}}

Every single one of you has in you. A place of excellence. Excellence of
beauty, excellence of intelligence, excellence of morality. Excellence
of wisdom. Excellence that is divine. It's absolutely stable. Unchanging
It's your birthright to be experiencing that. And that should be the
measuring stick with which you look at yourself. It's time to wake up
and not only open your eyes but become conscious. Let your attention be
drawn to that place. Let your attention go to that place, even just the
idea of that place. Because it's there. So that you may determine your
day with excellence. Not just so that you will have an excellent day,
but everyone you come in contact with will have an experience of
excellence that they will be blessed by as well. This place of
excellence is divine. It's divinity. I The presence of God in you. And
that's why its excellence can lift you. And it's what will, as more and
more of you access it, begin to change your world. Because you will be
bringing this excellence with a capital E. Into expression. Blessing
others, inspiring others. And that is the key. Choosing to reach for
this place of excellence in you and then daring to be from what you find
yourself knowing as a result of the connection. Becomes a transcendent
thing for everyone. It means you're not bound to who you thought you
were yesterday. You're not bound to who others think you are today based
on yesterday. You're not bound to the laws and rules that your teachers
taught you. But because this is a place of excellence with a capital E,
there will always be order. There will always be that which Facilitates
the expression of intelligence. There is a call to A better order of
things than the one that is in place. The place of excellence in you
when you connect with her. Causes you to be the place. Where
transformation is embodied and expressed. Outwardly vocally in the
world. In a way that invites. Harmonious change no matter how gradual it
is. You're capable of being. An embodiment of excellence. You do have
wisdom. You do have a capacity right now and ability to know.
Transcendental truth, transformational truth, and you do have the
ability to fearlessly and calmly give it voice. The place of excellence
in you, it's nature is love. And it knows how to be appropriate in the
face of apparent human need. So that wisdom will be expressed. That
doesn't overwhelm. Because this place of excellence in. The nature of
which is love. Can be meaningful. Without appearing to be superior. So
dare dare to connect with this place of excellence in you. In you there
is a place of excellence. Connect with it and let it show. Everyone will
say thank you.


