---
 title: Re-embrace the Altar
 audiofn: Re-embrace_the_Altar
---

## {{page.title}}

The more acute a situation gets. The closer you are. I'm going to put it
this way, to having your will broken. Your will to operate at odds with
God. And so the more acute the situation is, You might say the more
miracle ready you are. Because the sanity in you that you cannot get rid
of, even though you can try to ignore it. stands ready. In that state of
acuteness. To register with you. It stands ready for you to recognize
once again. So did you say, ah. I get it. I've been making it difficult
for myself. By doing it the way I wanted to do it. Without being curious
to know what really works. And so I'm going to Ask for help. I'm going
to turn around. Where I can see the altar. I am going to We embrace.
That in me. which holds the answer. which I rejected at some point. You
see, wisdom is something more than just an intellectual aha. It's
something that comes from very deep within you. Because it's part of
your innate sanity. And so you feel it. The whole reason that One
doesn't turn toward the altar. is because one is preoccupied. With the
error And Defense against it. Out of self righteousness. You see, And so
one is committed. To exposing the error. And demonstrating its
horribleness. And proving that it must be annihilated. Instead of
stopping a moment. And going within. And becoming still, which is the
equivalent of turning around so that your back isn't to the altar. And
letting in the perspective. That is naturally and eternally yours. So
that you can with love. Reassess. Your choice of how to Perceive what
you're seeing. And make a new choice. Colored by Supported by and
illuminated by The love that you are. That you have become reacquainted
with once again. By virtue of abandoning your commitment to the error
and its eradication. And instead Yielding into. The love in the center
of your being. That is the presence of God and his perspective, and
that's what heals.

