---
 title: Reality
 audiofn: Reality
---

## {{page.title}}

I, I have been speaking for a long time about the fact that all you are
confronted with, no matter how you are interpreting what you're seeing
is reality with a capital R or the kingdom of heaven. But we'll use the
word reality with a capital R. Reality is The mind of God. Experienced.
Without any misperceptions associated with it. The world that you see,
what you call the world is reality. Perceived with misperceptions. But
it's still reality. Absolutely everything that you experience, see,
touch, taste, smell is energy. And the energy is spirit capital Spirit.
The substance of God. And this energy is light. And this energy is love.
I have suggested to you that as you have curiosity, To look at what you
call the world. And see what more is there than what you have been
letting register with you. That initially you will begin to see uh light
streaming off the edges of leaves or fingers or um Papers or lampshades
or Any object that you might be looking at. Because As you know, light
radiates. And I'm not surprised that you say that you love these orbs
because they are love and they are loving you. And they are indeed
glimpses of The energetic nature. Of all that is. Now, the fact is that
what you call empty space between objects. Cannot possibly be empty. The
energy of spirit is there as well. And So You would find That if you
were seeing reality and all the suns in the universe were extinguished.
It still would be full of light. Because creation has no vacuums. The
presence of the movement of God has no voids. And so the energy of
spirit that is love that is light. would be experienced as eternal
illumination. Now when, when you're ready to see. Evidences Of the
substance that is spirit. You will begin to have experiences like I
described or experiences like you're having of orbs. They are not
physical. They are not physical phenomenon. They are pure spirit. And
Because their substance. Is light slash love. They're always loving you.
They're always beneficent. There is no call for fear or superstitious
suppositions about them. And I wonder why he's the only one in the group
who is experiencing them. I, I say that to cause everyone else to say,
well, I want to see them too, rather than, well, he must have a special
talent. It's time for everybody. To begin to be experiencing more and
more of the evidence of the movement of God. As what God is being there
instead of what you have believed was there. It's time for all of you to
be beginning to have new and very different experiences. And And what I
want to take a moment to convey to all of you is that whether you're a
student of a course in miracles or Christian Science or Catholicism or
Buddhism, Don't become so caught up in the in the language or the focus
of attention that any of these teachings provide. Don't become so caught
up in the specifics of them that you stop being curious for the
unexpected. For things that are not included in those books like
streaming light or Orbs of light or Radical new perceptions about each
other. Or radical new perceptions of yourself. As masculine and
feminine. As an experience of wholeness. You grow up And you abandon the
delight and the curiosity that you had as a child, where you get up each
day and you expect to discover something that you never experienced
before. You were open And then you were told what to be open for, and
then you were given books to tell you what to expect to see and uh and
then you got religion. And you were told not where not to look. And so,
In spite of a faith in God. You avoided the surprise. Of the experience
of what God is. That is inseparable from God because The nature of God,
the being of God is, is expressed in the words, behold, I make all
things new. Well, Air conditioning says I can't. I can't, I can't afford
to go off the deep end like you're describing. You know, you want me to
give up all rational sense and be open to something totally unexpected.
That's chaos. You want me to abandon all reason. Which means you expect
me to become unreasonable, and everyone knows what happens when one
becomes unreasonable or behaves without reason. Well, no, what you've
experienced is Not what happens when you abandon reason, but when you
abandon reason. You replace it with fear, and what you have is the
evidence of your fear of being in an unreasonable state. But if you will
actually abandon reason. You'll find miracles happening because there is
a God that all of your reasonableness was covering up. All of your
reasonable plans. And goals And all your reasonable ways of doing things
so that nothing surprising will happen. And you won't be caught off
guard. By America. When you abandon reason, what you do is relax, and in
effect, you yield into the underlying everlasting arms of love. You
yield in. To the presence of the Creator. And when you're not energizing
fear about it. You find the movement of creation, you find the movement
of harmony. You find the movement of the fulfillment of God's purpose
for you. Changing you. And changing your experience. So I'm very glad
you came all this distance to ask this question. Because The answer is
important. But even more important than that, It provides an example for
everyone who is spiritually uptight. It provides an example for them. Of
How the doors To incite And even revelation. can present themselves. And
that there needs to be a curiosity to experience the unexpected. The
unpredictable. And Unreasoned good. Unreasonable good. OK.

