---
 title: Rearranging the world
 audiofn: Rearranging_the_world
---

## {{page.title}}

Now Watch the ego because The ego will come in there. And say, oh,
here's a way to improve your presence while your back is to the altar.
Now you have a little tidbit of information. The whole aim of the
miracle is to raise the level of communication. Ah, ah, I can grasp that
we're going to raise the level of communication. And now you set out to
Bless your brothers. With, with your best idea of raising the level of
communication. When what will actually raise the level of communication
is not the words that you end up saying. But the love from which those
words arise. And The only way love will give rise to words is if you
have. Abandoned your independence and turned toward the altar and said,
Help. What What is appropriate here. What fulfills capital P purpose?
What will uncover God more clearly right here. The only way any of you
can be effective teachers. Effective agents for change. is when you
realize None of you Have a personal capacity on your own. To do good,
period. that as long as you Claimed the right of independence. From God
With the very strong belief that God has created you to be independent.
You're just going to be rearranging the world. And you are going to
further And extenuate the ignorance that you're already all suffering
from. To be an effective teacher. is to not attempt to be a teacher at
all. But to be A humble servant. From the Ego standpoint, a humiliated
servant. Humility. is a state in which there's no tension. Humility is a
state in which The capacity to be forceful. Doesn't exist. Humility is
where willfulness has been laid aside for willingness. Willingness to
say thy will be done. Why? Not so you can be controlled. But so that in
the absence of your trying to be controlling, The divine way things work
can register with you, and you can be in harmony with it. And thus Be a
presence who is constantly glorifying God. By not glorifying anything
else. In the absence of the attempt to glorify anything else. God is the
only thing that can show up.

