---
 title: Reinforcing egos
 audiofn: Reinforcing_egos
---

## {{page.title}}

I am in every word I say. Speaking to egos. In a way that does not
reinforce your egohood. And so I don't appear to be a threat. I don't
appear to be against you. And yet I'm Absolutely saying no. I will not
join you in reinforcing. Your ego, sense of self. I am speaking to the
divine one that you are in such a way that it does not arouse the ire of
the ego that you think you are. And thus defeat my purpose. Which is to
uncover your real purpose to you so that you might come back into your
right mind. My reason, my motive. Where I'm coming from, which is, uh,
my union with the father. Causes me to be able to say things that
promote change without frightening. Without frightening you. And so when
you turn toward the altar and join with the Father, You will find
yourself able to be in a way. With your brothers and sisters. The um The
group with the mutually agreed upon definitions. In a way That will not
appear to be threatening. And will spawn or inspire curiosity about
things that it had been defended against in the past. Now There are no
private thoughts. Uh, another Phrase to think about. Now, there are no
private thoughts, as a, as a matter of fact, there simply are no private
thoughts. And so as each one of you turns toward the altar and listens
first, So that what comes forth through you. embodies not only the
transformational truth, but the nurturing love that allows for the ideas
to be heard without instilling fear. That is what I'm talking about.
When I say cast your vote. You see, I'm not casting my vote against you
stupid egos. Your egohood isn't my concern. Doing something about it is
not my concern. There is no such egohood. So I'm not going to attack it.
But I'm also not going to. Use my words in a way. That reinforce a sense
of egohood. They are well chosen. So as to cause you to be interested in
something different from reinforcing your egos and finding some. To you
intelligent. And constructive reason for doing it. So that you have more
interest in doing that than reinforcing your egos. Now, because there
are no private thoughts. As you join with the Father. Embodying the
Father. You will find that not only your immediate acts in your
immediate neighborhood. will trigger transformation. Your Willingness to
make commitment to Not being divided within yourself. Your willingness
to not claim a right to have your own private beneficent thoughts.
Constitutes a joining a union with the father. That makes what appears
to be your specific contribution. More Then the contribution could
possibly be if it really was just your tiny contribution. And It becomes
the leaven that leavens the whole lump, the little bit. That has A broad
transformational effect in the world. Why? Not because of what you have
decided, not because of how focused. You can be In presenting the idea.
But because You're not conflicted within yourself. When you are not
conflicted within yourself. It means that you have abandoned your
so-called right. To act independently. And in the absence of the
Introduction of the static. Of claiming a mind of your own and the
rights of your own. You're able to experience yourself as what God is
being right where you are. The, the holy self that you are. Becomes your
experience. Not, not with halos around your head and not. With choirs of
angels singing, but with simple purity. Of singleness of purpose.
Purpose set in motion by the Father. That you're willing to embody
without embellishing. And without feeling that you've been deprived of
something essential by not being able to add your own little bias to it.
Or even have a totally different contribution to give, you see. It has
power. To Change the dream. To improve the dream so that it becomes the
happy dream. Because Of the purity, the singleness. Of what you're
willing to allow yourself to be. Because you're yielding to God.

