---
 title: Resentment
 audiofn: Resentment
---

## {{page.title}}

When there is a frustration with who one is or how one is experiencing
oneself. It can get to the point where The frustration And the sense of
imposition. The The practice and eventually the habit of resentment.
Becomes a fixture in your experience. That you have commitment to. And
Yet The resolution of the problem can only come when you're willing to
set that aside, when you're willing to let that be less important. Then
Becoming still enough. To hear The resolution to the problem. When you
get into the habit of resentment and the call for justice. You're not
really after the answer. You're not really after the resolution to the
problem. You're after getting even. And it will block you absolutely
from the answer. And it will block all of you from waking up ultimately.
So you must learn to value. The answer more than justice. I'll tell you
this. The answer will allow everyone to win. The answer will bless
everyone, and justice will not. You've all got to stop hating
yourselves. What I mean by that is you've all got to stop validating and
valuing the engagement of resentment and the call for justice in
yourselves. And you've got to change and opt for what will resolve the
problem. Whether it gets you justice or not. And right now the only
reason you're not all awake. It is because you are opting for your
definitions of everything. Instead of the meanings the Father is
expressing in and as everything. So, so this is relevant to everyone. Be
careful that you aren't enjoying. The energizing of frustration and
resentment. Of the Uncalled for injustice. And you're right to react to
it. Be careful That you do not make such commitment to the so-called
pleasure. Of self-righteousness. That you refuse to ask for the answer
and then let the answer in.

