---
 title: Resisting Reality
 audiofn: Resisting_Reality
---

## {{page.title}}

Whenever You look at the presence of God. And say that it's something
other than the presence of God. That particular presence of God becomes
a learning device for you. When you look at The presence of God and say,
That's not the presence of God. The fact that it is the presence of God
and can't stop being the presence of God will constitute, I'm going to
call an ever present assertion in your experience of what it really is
because it can't stop being what it is. And your denial of what it is is
going to cause a friction, you might say, a discomfort in you, because
you can't be out of your mind and be comfortable. And so whatever of
reality you look at and you say it's unreal will become a learning tool.
Not because that's its actual function. But because What it really is
cannot escape you. And so what it really is will constantly nudge you,
bug you. irritate you Because it will constantly insist upon registering
with you as what it is. And so it will grab your attention. And hold
your attention. Until you bless it. By saying, what are you really? In
spite of what I believe you are, what are you really? And once What it
is registers with you, you experience it as it is for what it is and it
is no longer a learning tool because there's no learning. For you to
experience about it. Here's another way of putting it. When you look at
some aspect of the presence of God and say it isn't God. You have
created ignorance of what it is within yourself and thereby an
opportunity to learn. And therefore that thing becomes a learning
device. I want this brought out so that you don't demean your bodies. By
calling it a learning device that will disappear when You don't need to
learn anything anymore. It's a learning device because it isn't what you
have determined it is and what it really is with a capital R. Not only
awaits your discovery but insists upon Being recognized by you because
it's God declaring himself as Himself and for you. To recognize it is
Something you ultimately have no choice about even though you can resist
recognizing it for what it is for a period of time through a private
personal use of will, you see.

