---
 title: Resisting change
 audiofn: Resisting_change
---

## {{page.title}}

The reason for the pain is The desire to hold on to the familiar. To
hold on to the current form of good. That is existing When it is
changing. And that is why I said that the discomfort comes from
resisting the change. The remedy is to let go of The definition of good.
That has, let us say, remained in the picture, endured for a long enough
time for you to feel comfortable with it and begin to think that there
won't be further unfoldment. More change. It's at exactly those moments.
That The remedy is to turn back to the altar. It's a reminder. Father,
what is going on here? What, what is the reality that is going on here?
How do I behave? Appropriately to The movement that is occurring that
was unanticipated. And which I really would rather not have occur. How
do I stay in touch with the movement? Gracefully And then you listen.
And you expect an answer. Why Because you want. To be dead center. In
the movement of fulfillment that God is being. Why? Because you want to
fulfill your function. Which is to glorify God. To be the full blown
presence of his will. Right there In what apparently is nothing more
than a human circumstance. At least as far as the ego is concerned. You
hold on to what you're familiar with because you feel that its loss will
constitute. A loss Rather than a game. Oh, but I like it down here in
the valley. No, we're going to go up to the mountain top. But it's moist
and it's verdant and it's uh and there, there is a river and it is
enjoyable and it's It's going to be hard work to climb to the top of the
mountain. It will be worth it. I don't know. Please, can we do it
tomorrow? But when you Yield and you say yes. And you go to the top of
the mountain. You find that the view is more expansive. You find that
you have more than you had because the valley is still available to you,
but more has been added to it. You are afraid of loss. And yet the gain.
Of more than you already have will require you to let go of the little
you have. to let go of your Tight clutch on it. That is so tight that
nothing else can be embraced. You have to be willing to let it go so
that more can be added to it.

