---
 title: Return to sanity
 audiofn: Return_to_sanity
---

## {{page.title}}

This establishes the proper function of the mind and corrects its
errors. It doesn't say you have to correct its errors. The errors are
corrected. Spontaneously. As truth dawns in your awareness. As you see
the truth, what isn't true becomes obvious. And once what isn't true is
obvious to you. You naturally no longer invest any trust or commitment
to them. And correction It's complete. Just because you were paying
attention, not because you managed to find some way on your own to
correct the error, you see? Do you see what I'm trying to say? I'm
trying to say that everything that exists that is real. is insisting
upon Your return to sanity. Your return to sanity. Whole-mindedness is
inevitable. And everything that is going on. is geared toward supporting
your Letting yourself into that deep dark corner where the truth about
you is hidden. You say My mind is all screwed up. I've got to straighten
out my mind. So that I can move forward on my spiritual path, or I've
got to straighten out my mind so I can have a healing. See, that's,
that's part of the exercise of control and the spiritual exercise of
control for spiritual benefit is one of the most noble means of getting
to the top of the barrel. If your mind is all screwed up, all you have
to do is stop trying to unscrew it and say, help. To God You don't have
to be able to get into the right frame of mind to have a healing of your
mind. You've got to ask for help, you see? So you don't have to be at a
certain level of perfection before the benefits of what you perfectly
and divinely are can register with you. That's why in your worst
moments. Miracles can happen. Because it's not up to you. To manage your
mind. In such a way as to create a healing. The only management of your
mind that you have to employ is to say help instead of trying to do it
yourself. That's the only discipline. That you can actually bring to
bear. On the problem of being in order to Get out of the problem.

