---
 title: Ripple effect
 audiofn: Ripple_effect
---

## {{page.title}}

The ego's habit is to gather. a sense of who you are from the way
everybody else thinks about you. Well, if that's the truth, then you be
the everyone else who reflects back something the ego isn't expecting.
Care and concern and love because those that you extend that to. Because
they're in the habit of gathering their sense of themselves from you
will gather a new sense of themselves and might be inspired to speak a
little bit more kindly to the next person they encounter, and it ripples
on. But it has to start somewhere with a new habit, a new way of being
with each other. Each one of you, because you are the presence of God,
makes a difference. Each one of you is meaningful. One with God is a
majority. So when you express yourself from your heart and your intent
is to leave the one you're encountering with the feeling that They've
been traded humanely. You set something into motion. And The gift you
make of love to another. is used by the Holy Spirit beyond any control
you might want to exercise for your brother's benefit. But the gift must
be set into motion. In order for the Holy Spirit to turn it to your
brother's greatest advantage. So don't forget this, you make a
difference. Now, You make a difference when you withhold love too. And
that's a difference you don't want to make. You're always making a gift
of what is real or what is unreal. The gift you give that is unreal, the
Holy Spirit, cannot turn to the advantage of another because the gift
you make has no substance to it. There's nothing real there to turn to
the advantage of anyone else. So be aware that At every moment of every
day you make a difference. And then because you care. Because you choose
to make a gift of love. And having done it, release it, release that
gift to the Holy Spirit. It doesn't matter whether it appears to you
that it's been received. You make the gift and release it to the Holy
Spirit. And go on your way looking for the next opportunity to be
humane, kind, thoughtful, caring, even if it's just in two or three
words like good morning. Nothing coercive than that. But in that
instance, it awakened an awareness. In the other that it was a good
morning and that person's day was changed. You see So you never have to
say, what can I do? How can I have any consequence? One with God is a
majority. Something done with God. is immutable is unchangeable. And you
do it with God and let the Holy Spirit use it. You know what? You're
going to start experiencing joy. You're going to start feeling loved
because you are letting the father's love. Flow through you and bless
you because you dared to extend it to your brother and break the habit
of isolation. And separation from God.

