---
 title: Seeing Spirit
 audiofn: Seeing_Spirit
---

## {{page.title}}

What you call your physical eyes see only what you believe that you can
see. Only what you have determined there is for you to see. And so You
look at a leaf. Or a table And it doesn't occur to you. That it's spirit
And that because it's the energy of spirit, the presence of God, it is
light. And therefore there is light emanating from it and there is
light. As the substance of it. And not only that, the light is living
love, so it is. Loving you as I've said before. embracing you with An
incredible infinite divine love. And so because You haven't thought that
that might be the possibility. Your physical eyes see only what you
believe there is there to see. Now I will tell you this as Spiritual
sight as the perception of things as they really are increases because
you are choosing to look at everything. With your guide or with the
Father. desiring to experience their perspective. Your eyes, what you
call your physical eyes, will begin to see spirit. And you will also
begin to realize that your very eyeballs, what you have called your
eyeballs, are not matter. But our spirit as well and that they simply
identify. Consciousness In one aspect. The physical eye. That's not
connected to insight but only your mutually agreed upon definitions and
your memory. That what it sees Cannot be corrective. It's feeding back
to you the past. It's feeding back to you memory. It's boxed in. It
isn't open to see outside of the box determined by Your very specific
definitions that you've already given to everything. And of course from
that standpoint from within the box. Error cannot be corrected by any
device that can be seen physically. But I'll tell you something else.
When spiritual sight. infills you. With the experience of what a thing
really is. Meaning The substance of spirit which is love, loving you.
Now Everything you see is capable. Of being corrective because love,
loving you. Corrects your misperception. Not only about what you were
looking at, but about yourself because your lovability is inescapable to
you.


