---
 title: Sending out messengers
 audiofn: Sending_out_messengers
---

## {{page.title}}

Inner peace is what you experience when you stop sending out messengers
of fear. When you stop sending out messengers of hate. When you stop
sending out messengers of jealousy. When you stop sending out. Messages
of arrogance. And when you choose to become still and you experience
your peace, As I've said before, You find yourself beginning to be
filled with the experience of being loved, and the result is joy, and
now you're engaged in sending out messengers of joy. which will return
to you with confirmation. Of that which is joyous. When another sends
out a messenger of hate or fear, To you And finds you nonresponsive.
Because you've chosen to be in your peace where you find joy. It does
not bring back confirmation. Of what it is looking for from you, but
your expression of joy. Right in the face of that, your experience of
joy that is sending out messengers of joy. Has the opportunity to find a
joyful response in the one who had been sending out a messenger of hate
or fear. And your messenger of joy. is an active agent for change.
Because it has its origin. In the movement of God Himself. That you have
let in. Messengers of fear. are not agents of change. You might say that
they are agents of paralysis. Agents of immobilization. But not agents
of Not initiators of action. Of response. The messengers of fear simply
block, simply immobilize. This is why the messengers for fear have no
power. Again When you are confronted with illusion, when you are
confronted with error. When you are confronted by misperception. And it
is aggressively presented, you need to deny it. Once again though, your
denial of it is not the first step of a contest. Or a war, but a clear
acknowledgement. That it's not true because truth is such and such and
such and such that you know. That sends a messenger out. Looking for
confirmation. And it will find confirmation. Transformational
confirmation.

