---
 title: Shift from get to give
 audiofn: Shift_from_get_to_give
---

## {{page.title}}

At the bottom line, what all of you are teaching if you are not in the
process of awakening is Transactional. Getting for getting or getting
for giving. I give you this, you give me that. And what you must give me
must be equal to what I think I am losing. If I give you something. Of
course, fear does many things. It causes a sense of paranoia. It causes
there to be um Lack of confidence even though there might be
justification for confidence and so there is distrust. And as a result
of distrust coupled with fear. One tends to If he can get away with it.
Take advantage of his brother or sister. and get more. Then The apparent
cost of the loss of what is being extended to that brother or sister.
And so everything becomes quite muddy. Mind you, this, uh, this doesn't
just apply to money. It applies to The sharing or extension of love, the
sharing or extension of trust, um, it applies to, um, Human
relationships. It truly Mm Finds its way into every corner of life
experience. And this isn't right teaching. And the learning that occurs
isn't right learning. The teaching and the learning accomplish one
thing. The reinforcement of the human condition. The reinforcement of
The um Empty Experience of not being connected with one source. Of not
Being fully consciously aware. Of what you truly are. It's the result of
abandoning the place of excellence in you. And then imagining that you
haven't abandoned it. It's miserable. And what's the way out? The way
out is to shift. From getting To giving And to give from that place of
excellence in you. That up to this point, You have chosen to block out
of your mind. Because of course, you have more important things to do
like survive in this miserable experience. And make something wonderful
out of it all by yourself. Which is Impossible. Right learning It is
never a matter. Of finding a way. To be alone, separate from your
source. And experience fulfillment. It is not a matter of improving the
human condition. Without ever discovering That what you're calling the
human condition is the divine state of being. Which you are blocking
from your experience. OK Now I fear And wrong teaching Is coloring your
every perception. And therefore Causes misperception to creep into every
corner of your life. Then obviously, If the shift from getting to giving
is going to occur, Then the attitude of gifting. is going to have to
reach every single itty bitty corner. Of your life The willingness to
extend love and consideration. And genuine caring. We'll have to extend
to The smallest insect. The most poisonous insect. The most ferocious
beast. The plants, the trees. The cloud of dirt, the rock. Your brother
and your sister and yourself. In other words, it's not complicated.
You're either doing one of two things. You're either In a state of fear.
Engaged in getting Or you're in a state of peace. Engaged in giving.
Behaving in a way always. That makes your brother whole. That makes your
plants whole. That makes your world whole. That makes your business
transactions. Identify Your wholeness and the wholeness of another.
Without for a moment. Indulging in getting. Because You're willing to
embrace as a fact. The divine truth. That wholeness is the nature of
your being because it's the Father's good pleasure to give you it all,
the kingdom. That's your birthright. Because this is not your habit.
It's something that you must use some self-discipline for. And you must
practice it on purpose in order for it to be a conscious experience for
you. Which As time goes. accumulates for you. A background, a history,
if you will. Of of conscious experience. of engaging in Making your
brother, your sister and your world whole. Until it becomes second
nature to you. Because you see as this habit. Begins to replace the old
habit of getting. You begin to remember, ah. This is what's normal. This
is my birthright. This is my being. This is what I'm all about. And when
that light bulb goes on in your awareness, It stops being a disciplined
practice. And it just Becomes you being yourself. In an entirely new way
from an entirely new place. But you won't get to that new place. If you
don't begin to consciously practice what to you at the moment seems to
be unnatural. And to practice it with discipline. To practice it with
commitment. And to be alert. For the places where you are either
bargaining for another to provide you with your wholeness. Or you are
dealing with another in a manner that gets more than the situation is
worth and leaves your brother at a disadvantage. Let us undertake to
learn this lesson together. So we can be free of them together.
Tags (0)

