---
 title: Simple involvement
 audiofn: Simple_involvement
---

## {{page.title}}

You want to keep yourself, keep your life simple. What you need to be
careful of is. That being simple, that you not let being simple mean
Becoming uninvolved. Keeping your life simple means. Learning how To
listen for what is appropriate for you. Learning to listen for guidance,
in other words. Learning how to feel the impulse of love that the Father
is being right where you are. So that it can be allowed into expression.
In terms of involvement. Involvement is not going to be Sitting there
meditating. It's going to be you involved with your brother or sister.
Your fellow man, in other words, In a healing capacity. By being the
presence of that which promotes their growth. Being the presence of that
which inspires them to look at themselves a new way. It means Helping
the ones who are experiencing hardship. While remembering to love those
who aren't. And to be involved with them as well. So that the ones who
aren't experiencing problems are not faced with having to cope with
loneliness. You see So, Becoming simple within yourself. It is going to
open the door for you to be more fully involved in your world on behalf
of your respect for it and your ability to recognize God in it and
therefore the appropriateness of having reverence for it and treating it
well. Again, just be careful that you don't let The simplification of
your life become the way you are uninvolved. Or a means of being
uninvolved. I cannot put it more simply.


