---
 title: So and so
 audiofn: So_and_so
---

## {{page.title}}

Instead of your questions being of the sort that say how do I deal with
this so and so? Or how do I deal with that so and so? Or how do I deal
with this situation or that situation? Understand that the real question
needs to be how do I get past the definitions I have given to this
situation. How do I get past the definitions I've given to so and so?
Because it's your definitions that are making you upset. About so and
so. And it's your definitions that keep you. From recognizing that just
as there is a place of excellence in you, there is a place of excellence
in that so and so. Because if you will, if you will remember that there
is a place of excellence in that so and so. And you're coming from the
place of excellence, and you, you will direct your words and ideas to
that place of excellence. And what comes out of your mouth will not be
reactive or critical. It will come out of your mouth and it will expect.
That place of excellence to be able to hear the truth and the love that
you're expressing. You will acknowledge a place of excellence, and it
will begin to elicit from that person responses from that place of
excellence rather than defense. But boy, if you come from your
definitions, you will arouse defense in that other one. You just don't
have to stay stuck in this dream any longer. But it depends on where you
want to place your commitment. If you want to place your commitment in
the definitions that create walls around you and place you in a closet
in the middle of the kingdom of heaven, so that you can't see the
kingdom of heaven. And all you're confronted with are your own
definitions of everything. If you want to do that, that is what you will
be stuck with. While the kingdom of heaven Continues in its fullness and
glory. While reality Unfolds Awesomely Do you see that there simply is
no justification really. For you all to continue to Be so sure you know
what everything is. And then Worry about it and fret about it and get
angry about it. All the time ignoring the fact that you're the one who
provided the awful definitions that you're reacting to. I know you say,
well, so and so really is behaving poorly. Yes, so and so is behaving
poorly because he's stuck in his own closet as well. When you have a
better job to do. than to confirm his bondage to his closet. You have
the capacity in you from this place of excellence in you to confirm
something better. To this brother or sister who's behaving poorly. And
to be that which inspires him or her. To consider the possibility that
the definitions that are keeping him bound are not legitimate for him or
her. Just as I do with you. You got the picture.


