---
 title: Spontaneous shift
 audiofn: Spontaneous_shift
---

## {{page.title}}

As long as you seem To be able to justify not extending love. The call
for expressing love will confront you. The call for returning to your
function will confront you. As long as you don't get the message. You
will have time to get the message. And once you get the message, you
won't need time to get the message, and time will no longer be an
experience. You see, It's just a matter of a return from a misperception
to a correct perception. It's arriving at a point where you abandon
commitment to the so-called fun. Of looking at everything with just a
little bit of skew added to it, you see. What you divinely are. And
which you can't alter in any way is a built in memory. And so no matter
how much you twist yourself, And contort yourself to look funny or
different from yourself. What you are is implanted there and When either
you get tired from the effort. To hold the contorted position, or you
just decide to stop. The return to your normal shape, the return to what
you never could stop being, is spontaneous and automatic and effortless.
So the last step is in the plan from the beginning. And when the twist
is released, Without effort, without work, without labor, without toil.
You will find yourself. Experiencing yourself truly and everything else
truly. It's inevitable It doesn't take work. You don't have to refine
yourself. It's not an evolutionary process. And you will find that the
hardest work you ever did. was trying not to be who you are. Becoming
who you are happens spontaneously when the effort that you are applying
upon yourself to be different. Simply ceases. The simplicity of it, the
wholeness of it. The bliss of it, the purity of it. The right-mindedness
of it. And the conscious harmony with every aspect of creation
infinitely. is yours is returned to you. And what opens that door. What
promotes the spontaneous shift. Is the embrace and embodiment. Of The
atonement principle which is love. And embodying it in acts of love
rather than acts of defense.

