---
 title: Sublim Healing 1
 audiofn: Sublim_Healing_1
---

## {{page.title}}

What he Your right mind, the Holy Spirit. Enables you to do is clearly
not of this world, for miracles violate every law of reality as this
world judges it. Every law of time and space of magnitude and mass of
prediction and control is transcended. How else could there be an
instantaneous healing, let's say of a broken bone. And don't think that
such a thing hasn't already happened. Multiple times, many times. What
do you think has happened? When you've been in a traffic situation that
there was no way through and you came through and there was no Impact of
any kind. What do you think it is that happens when Something you have
been conditioned to experience great fear about occurred and you didn't
experience the fear and there was no suffering from it. Well, every law
of time and space of magnitude and mass of prediction and control has
been transcended. In the littlest miracle. They are transcended Because
they aren't what governs. The miracle is what governs them. Every law of
time and space, of magnitude and mass of prediction and control is
transcended. This is what you have to look forward to. This is what you
should be standing in expectation of in every moment you're
experiencing. No, but you're just so damn sure that it takes a certain
amount of time to get to work and you're going to be late and in all
likelihood, all of the lights will be red that you will run into
delaying you even further and Blah blah blah blah, on and on you go. And
so you're looking at the kingdom of heaven. With the potential of
experiencing it with the Holy Spirit. In which every law of time and
space of magnitude and mass of prediction and control can be
transcended. And you're stuck. With what you are confident is true.
Well, stop being so confident. So that your trip to work in the morning
can be miraculous. And so that your perspective and perception of life
might be transformed significantly. Because if that isn't what all of
this is about, then go home and throw this book in the fireplace. And
Make do with what you have. And stop complaining about what you have.
Accept it. And find happiness to the best of your ability. But if you're
going to be reading these things, And if you're going to be claiming to
be actually interested in waking up, Then start expecting. The laws of
time and space of magnitude and mass of prediction and control to be
transcended. Start expecting to see matter behave like spirit. Because
you're willing to actually consider the possibility that it never was
matter, that it always has been spirit, and that it is always at, I'm
going to say the mercy of. The beneficent Movement Of God called
creation. When you wake up tomorrow morning, you wake up to the
opportunity to see the kingdom of heaven because it's the kingdom of
heaven you're waking up in. Let this sink in. Let this register with
you. So that a truly genuine curiosity begins to come into play. Why?
Because a truly genuine curiosity constitutes. Miracle readiness. And
miracle mindedness. And releases you from every confidence you have
employed that this or that situation or circumstance is not amenable to
a miracle. Including the cancer you seem to be experiencing. Including
the headache you seem to be experiencing. Including the awful
relationship that you have with your brother or sister because of
uncontrollable jealousy. Let miracle readiness, let miracle-mindedness.
be available to every single experience that presents itself to you
during the day. Else all you will experience will be what you expect to
happen. And you will remain bound by your expectation until you abandon
it. When you're looking at the altar, it's illumination, illuminates
you. And renders your committed beliefs. Invalid Effortlessly And once
they are seen as invalid, they are seen as not useful. And none of you
holds on to anything that you don't find useful. You don't even have to
throw away. An unuseful belief once it is recognized to be. Not useful.
It is abandoned effortlessly. Be aware that you see what you believe.
And so you believe you are vulnerable. And you get temps Experience
Chronic anxiety. You say that your body tenses up, but you are tensing
it up. That's where the level of confusion comes in. You say my body is
doing something. It is tensing up. But it is not. You experiencing
anxiety tense your body up to give it more density, to fool yourself
into believing that it is. More impervious by virtue of the tension, the
tightness. And then Because you believe that your body is doing this,
you then begin to believe what you're seeing. And you see your body as
an enemy. Which you must bring under control. You see, Then you say, My
body has an actual disease. An ulcer Or a cancer See, that's when you
are believing what you're seeing. And that will lock you in. To the
experience of cancer and whatever your associated beliefs are about it.
I will tell you all something. You could have much more creative beliefs
about cancer. Your creative beliefs about cancer could involve the
restructuring and rebuilding of a lost limb. That'll give you something
to contemplate. A different set of beliefs about it would have a
different effect. So, It is dangerous. To believe what you see. And say
My mind has created. An actual disease. It's still as Illusory and
intangible. As the confused thought. that caused you To use your body in
that way. You see? So indeed you must dare to look at Whatever the dis
ease is. And recognize and be willing to recognize. That it is an
illusion. Caused by Seeing what you have believed in your mind first and
then believing. The result as though it's separate and different from
your mind. Because until you realize That Only mind. has the capacity.
To be creative. You won't be able to get free of Believing what you're
seeing. And changing your mind. By being willing to turn around to the
altar and say, God, What is this really? What is this thing I call body
really? What is this thing I call world and universe really? If it's the
effulgence. The manifestation. Of God. Being the movement of creation
constantly. Then You're all in store for The wonderful experience of
Having it revealed to you as what it really is. If you Realize that the
cancer or whatever it might be, whatever disease it might be. is nothing
more. Then a mental Distortion That was caused by the adopting of
certain ideas. And a commitment to those ideas. You will then have the
means. Of being miracle ready. Because you won't fight the cancer or the
disease, you'll turn around to God and say, What's the real meaning? And
you will ask it. With a conscious desire to have your belief. Replaced
with the conscious experience of what it really is. The direct
experience of what it really is. You see. The body is a very cherished
and long held idea. As are sicknesses and the cause of sicknesses. Yet
the Bible talks of you walking along with the multitudes and healing the
people there. Instantaneously, so when you see them, you see what you
believe, so you don't see them as sick. Yet somehow this belief is able
to shine from out of your mind and into theirs so that they can adopt
the belief that you presented as well. And experience the instantaneous
healing. There's one key point they had to be willing. Miriam was not
willing. And so she remained lame. So the healing was only to those who
came to use for seeking healing. Exactly. And in doing so it was easier
for them to accept. Your vision as their own. They had to have their
eyes turned toward the altar as well. Otherwise, all I would be doing
would be creating a further illusion. So the healings are choreographed.
You might say that they are choreographed by the desire and willingness
of the one wanting to be healed. Which would be you as well as the blind
man, joined in that desire. Indeed, yes. As I've said before, your good
cannot be inflicted upon you. And knowing that is a step of empowerment
for each of you. You say, oh my God, you mean it's all up to me. Well,
I'll tell you something. If it was up to someone else, you would be at
their mercy. But when you say it's up to you. The you that you are is
more than This body we think we are. Yes. Because the I am that I am is
inclusive of all of us here. That is correct. So Virginia's healing is
also my healing. Absolutely. And I guess I can see that shining by the
effect that witnessing her healing has upon me or anyone else's. And
even those who haven't seen it and don't know it has happened. Because
it'll be there when their awareness is ready to Whether they like it or
not, the density of the dream has lessened with every little insight.
That any one experiences. And any instantaneous healing that occurs.
That cannot be attributed to any physical cause. causes such a shift in
the experience and the mind of the one who had the healing. That it
touches everyone else as well. And it becomes easier for that to happen
for everyone else. Again Whether it's a feeling that comes over you. Or
a negative attitude that just seems to pop in, or if the cancer you seem
to be experiencing. Whatever it is, However it presents itself. It's an
invitation. Not a declaration. A pain in the side is not a declaration
of a fact that you're ill. It's an invitation to believe. That you're
ill or that there is an actual physical problem in a physical body. And
you've got to challenge that when it happens. And decline the
invitation. First of all, Be willing to acknowledge that it is not a
declaration of a fact. It's an invitation to believe something. And then
decline the invitation. And reach out To the father To your father. To
the Holy Spirit. Or to the Christ. And invite. The in And really mean
it. Much. To contemplate much to be with. But notice I did not say much
to think about. Learn to be present with things without thinking. I love
you all.

