---
 title: Sublim Healing 2
 audiofn: Sublim_Healing_2
---

## {{page.title}}

Everybody likes thresholds. The changeover of a millennium. The
changeover of a decade. For a changeover of a year. In almost all cases,
each of you brings an expectation of newness to these things, and you
also bring an expectation of The breaking of boundaries, the breaking of
bondages. Release From that which has held you And you're even willing
to consider that the breaking of those bonds can happen by Extraordinary
means. What is a shame is that you only do that. When you come upon what
I'm calling a change line. A point That you call a threshold. Many of
you make resolutions. You're going to turn over a new leaf. Well, This
is good. Because it calls into play. And act on your part. I am going to
do something in a new way. I resolve. 2 blah blah blah blah blah. You're
not saying wow, I can't wait for something new to happen to me. And sit
there passively. You bring yourself into play. And this is good. But I'm
going to ask how many of you have said I resolve to let the impossible
happen to me. I resolved to let that which I I am confident cannot
possibly happen to me. I resolved not to bring any resistance. To the
impossible happening. Like Waking up Like having a total radical
healing. Like you. In other words, Having the experience of not just old
age but aging. Disappear How about resolving to Let go of a long
standing enemy. And not be bound any longer from your own growth by your
commitment to being angry. And enjoying the satisfaction of it. Now How
do you effectively resolve to experience change? How do you effectively
resolve to be made new? By stepping out of the mindset you're currently
using. By stepping out of the mutual agreements you have entered into
with everyone else. How about bringing an expectation of newness
constantly into play as part of your act of observing. As part of the
Activity of being conscious of being alive. And how about Making
commitment to Letting your new vision. Be supplied to you because you
have said, Father, what is the truth here? Holy Spirit, what is the
truth here? That which is nothing more than my right mind, not my
deluded mind, but that which my right mind knows is the truth. Now I'm
going to take advantage of Your belief system about uh New Year and so.
I'm going to use this demarcation in time. To provide an intent to
embody. The meaning of the statement. Why in the hell should I wait
another moment to wake up? Why in heaven's name should I not let heaven
in now? Everything That you're in the middle of everything that you're
experiencing is the ultimate is the kingdom of heaven. Seeing through a
glass darkly. Seen through confusion, seen through a reluctance on your
part to let go and see what it truly is. Let me ask a question. Why
aren't you experiencing the ultimate? Why aren't you awake? What is
keeping you from seeing things as they truly are? What is keeping you
from seeing yourself as the son or daughter of God and nothing else.
What is keeping any of you from Unfettered, unlimited good. It's the
fact that you're fighting for the right. To not have it Now it isn't
that you're fighting for the right not to have your good. But what
you're doing is fighting for the right to have your bad. You're fighting
for the right to hold on to your limitation. You're saying this is
impossible. Instead of saying I expect to see the impossible happen. I
am curious to see the impossible happen. I am curious to see that which
goes beyond my ability to comprehend. Register with me in a manner that
I can comprehend. But no, you say I can't have this and I can't have
that. So and so's behavior is keeping me from it. So and so's behavior
has been atrocious and it's really offended me, and I can't just let go
of my offendedness. Oh, the crazy arguments that everyone brings up to
hold on to. Their limits And to not see the impossible happen. That
would render the justice you think you would get by holding on to your
limitations. So utterly irrelevant. Because the fulfillment that would
replace it would be so utterly meaningful and so outside of the scope of
the petty small mindedness of the orphan mindset. I'm going to be
pushing for you not to be satisfied with. No particular change occurring
but A capacity you have. To somehow be halfway happy in spite of the
lack of change. I'm going to push for you not to miss the point. If
change is supposed to occur if transformation. Is the promise Then
demand the transformation. Demand to have the evidence and don't put it
down until you do have the evidence. Not evidence of your having a
capacity to be in charge and make things happen. But Evidence of
perfection. That before you lift a finger. Before you think a thought,
it is your birthright to be experiencing. You need to learn to demand to
have the experience without yet having done anything to deserve it.
Without having earned it through some orphan act. And then when you
don't have the experience yet, don't stop. Feeling into it, don't stop
being attentive for it. Don't give up on expecting to see this evidence
of the father's dictum. Behold, I make all things new. Behold, I make
all things new. If you're not experiencing ultimate good right now, it's
because in one way or another you're arguing against it, and you are
winning the argument. And the solution is simple. Abandon the argument.
Stop reinforcing it. Stop rehearsing it in words. Stop telling everybody
about your problem. Stop talking about the impossibility of the
situation and how unfair it is. Without ever. Bringing into the
conversation. One iota of curiosity about how the problem might be
solved and how it might be solved easily and quickly. And how it might
be solved because At the bottom line, it just might be an illusion. It
just might be the way you're perceiving things because of the bias
you're applying to your line of vision. It's nice to have the truth. But
You give arguments against it. Well, I don't have what it takes. I know
it's the truth. There's just something in me that isn't quite getting
it. And there's your argument against. Not ever having to wait again for
my good. When you dare to go into the holy instant. And you dare to
abandon your privacy, you say, Father, God, or Holy Spirit, what is the
truth here? What is your divine perspective that I have been told it is
my birthright to be experiencing as mine because No other perspective
was ever given to me. When you do that two step. And you don't hear the
answer, and the problem isn't resolved, and in fact it seems to be
getting worse. You tend to throw in the towel. You, you agree with all
the arguments against. Hearing the father's answer. You make a big thing
out of your discouragement. You blow up your discouragement bigger and
bigger until it's billowing all over the place. And proving to you how
overwhelming it all is. And how unreasonable it is. Under the
circumstances for you to expect to have your good. And here is where you
must persist. Here is where you must go against the meanings that you as
an orphan and all of the orphans in the orphanage have agreed upon
together is a circumstance that there's no way out of. And that indeed
your sorrow and your frustration and your anger are absolutely
justified, and they are what should be magnified. It's just a silly
mutual agreement. It's nonsensical. But, you know what? If you want to
see the evidence of the Father's will, if you want to see the evidence
of everything as the kingdom of heaven, instead of the evidence of a
material world that you see, You're going to have to plow right into
that. Experience of failure. I'm practicing the holy instant. I'm doing
everything, Raj said. And it's not working, and it's not working, and it
never has worked. I don't really know very many people who have ever had
the experiences Raj is talking about. Wow, and you heap argument upon
argument against. The holy instant You heap argument upon argument
against. Letting yourself into that void. Where you're no longer
asserting your definitions and meanings and your so-called authority.
And you're inviting God's authority in. So that you can find yourself in
that place where God's laws prevail. And nothing else does. And you
experience the enlightenment you need. Well, here's another threshold
for you, a bigger one than New Year's. It's the second coming. Wow.
Millions of people look forward to that. Well, let me ask you this. If I
appeared If the second coming happened and I appeared on your globe, do
you think that it would be so that All of you could take another 2000
years. To absorb and assimilate and wonder about and be amazed at.
Everything I might say. And everything I might do. No The point would be
so that the dream. The illusion of Mortality And the ignorance of your
divinity might cease when Over a long drawn out period of time, no,
instantly. This isn't a tease. And it isn't just an accommodation to the
human condition. And isn't it wonderful that God has given us these
inspiring Teachings So Here we are. New Year's Day? With change On
everyone's mind. Newness. The turning over of a new leaf, the the
becoming new, the being made new. To whatever extent Any of you might
allow. Even though The majority view will only allow just a little bit.
Hey, What about great abundance regardless of the economy? Can't happen.
Oh, OK. But you lie and you believe your lie. You believe the mutually
agreed upon definitions. Why you can't possibly experience your holy
birthright until the Great financial families who are really governing
things behind the scenes. Somehow die off or kill each other. Or a great
act of God wipes them out. You lie. That's not the truth. Holiness is
not circumstantial. Wholeness is not circumstantial. Put that under your
belt. It doesn't depend on anything else or anyone else doing or not
doing anything. But in order to experience it, You've got to abandon the
orphanage activities, and you've got to join in the holy instant and
say, Father, what is the truth here? What is the true perspective? I am
willing to give up. My confidences about what everything is and how
everything works. In favor of letting in. Your perspective. Which is the
truth. Because it is the perspective about creation. Which you are the
source of And I am going to stop turning to any other apparent resource.
To gather the facts about. Life That's how you stop doing what
constitutes an argument against being aware of the truth. It isn't so
much something that you need to do, it's something that you need to stop
doing. That's where the simplicity of it is. And so I'm going to keep
pointing your nose in the direction of the simplicity, and I'm going to
keep saying. Are you seeing the evidence? And if you say no, you're not
seeing the evidence. And if my asking you if you are and you're saying
no that you aren't makes you feel incompetent and Discouraged Well, Just
remember that's a ploy of the ego, it's a ploy of the orphan. It's part
of the mutually agreed upon appropriate behavior. But if you look at it
simply and honestly, you'll see that it's just a, it's just a ploy, it's
a tactic. To distract you from engaging in what will actually make a
difference. It, it is a tactic that immobilizes you and makes you
uninterested in. Looking for the evidence. So Don't let any part of your
day be halfway between change lines. Don't let him be a place where. It
really is a An important thing to be a dumb shithead. To just Lays
around in. Immobility and lack of interest and Play stupid. It's like
Maybe for the first time, you know what the purpose of a new year
resolution is. And what a real New Year's resolution is. Practice the
two-step. Engage in the holy instant. And stand there in the face of All
that seems awful. Until it dissolves. Because you are no longer wholly
insane. I've shared the truth with you. Happy New Year. Happy new now.
Happy instant.

