---
 title: Sublim Healing 3
 audiofn: Sublim_Healing_3
---

## {{page.title}}

Not many of you think you are participants in miracles. Your mindset The
mindset that doesn't recognize itself as the holy Son of God or the holy
daughter of God. It is uncomfortable With anything that smacks of The
reality of God. Such as a miracle. Leave that to the healers, leave that
to the ministers, uh. As for you, um, No, But you know what? To the
degree that you don't allow yourself to be comfortable with miracles.
You are denying Who you are You are denying that you're the holy Son or
daughter of God. You're willing at that point to, to settle quite
comfortably with just being a human being living out his or her
lifetime. And perhaps having a certain degree of comfort or smoothness
to that. Because of your spiritual studies. And your spiritual
understandings. In other words, As a general rule. You Avoid being
associated with holiness. And it's very important for you to recognize
that. To the degree that you find it difficult. To have the meaning of
holiness applied to you. To that degree you are holding fast. To the
orphan mentality. Specifically, you are holding fast to being One who is
ignorant of his father. God Oh, it'd be very nice to just be able to uh
brush my holiness under the corner of the carpet or under the pillow or
in the closet out of sight. But you know what? The unholy sons and
daughters of the ego of a private self-originated authoritative mind
die. Become ill. Suffer sin, disease, death. Hardship lack stress.
Plagued with Prejudice and hate and fear. It really is a lot easier to
uh To ignore one's holiness, I, I understand that. Yeah, you, you get
along quite well. In your suffering sense of Reality But We're talking
about waking up, aren't we? That's the whole point. The whole point is
discovering that reality is real. And that the reality that is real is
different from the one you've been identifying with and therefore waking
up is going to constitute a considerable change in your mental makeup,
your attitudes. Your atmosphere When you get up in the morning, how
often does it occur to you? How many mornings a week or a month does it
occur to you two, and to be curious, wonder what the miracle is I'm
going to see today. I wonder what miracles I'm going to experience as a
result of my letting go of control and authority. Over my day I wonder
how many miracles I'm going to experience. As a result of asking. For
the Holy Spirit's perspective. And yet this is what needs to happen.
These are the thoughts and ideas that need to be crossing your mind.
There need to be lights going on during your day that say, look, look,
look for that which goes beyond your present concept of what you're
seeing. Look for What God is being there Right where you think something
material is going on. You want your day to be filled with new, correct,
true perspective. That constitutes a direct experience of reality.
Meaning the presence of God right here. As long as you are. A human
being Growing older First growing up which It is very intriguing and you
look forward to it. And then growing older. In which you abandon looking
forward to the newness because you associate growing older with newness
fading. And this is the way you walk around every day. The reason for
learning of God and of your sonship or daughtership of your true
identity. is so that growing older stops. So that sin, disease, and
death disappear. So that hate and suffering and jealousy that consumes
you and debilitates you. Leaves your mind. Simply doesn't. Come up The
truth isn't supposed to be. A means of being comfortable in a life of
suffering. The Holy Spirit That which is nothing more than your right
mind. is intent on reuniting. The little separated, imaginatively
separated sense of self that you are embracing, back into the whole of
yourself. And it's only a shift of perception away. Now, You see, what
is that shift of perception? Tell me what it is. I'll gladly embrace it.
Well, It's a shift of perception that occurs. When you abandon All sense
of authority that you think you personally privately have. It's a shift
of perception. That occurs in a moment of humility, which means in the
absence of arrogance and in the absence of confidence. Confidence born
out of personal experience. You know what? Invulnerability Is the state
of being. When you are In humility. When you are Not holding yourself
apart from God, from your Father, from your source. Now this means That
right here in this world, As you go through your day. You can experience
invulnerability. On the freeway In the middle of an accident. We're
working with sharp knives in the kitchen. Or carrying hot liquids. In
vulnerability. The absolute incapacity to be Damaged, injured. Altered
from your divine originality. That the father is being. As you in every
single moment is available to you when you engage in those activities.
In humility. Now, That's Significant It's worth reaching for. Mind you,
In every case, Where you were an agent for change. Even those cases
where it might seem that you were consciously contributing. To change It
was the Holy Spirit that moved. The Holy Spirit that moved in you and
the Holy Spirit that moved in the one that was blessed with you. And it
wasn't any skill or power you had. And it happened not because you
understood it. But because in the moment of humility, The movement of
God. was able to be felt. Because it wasn't interfered with by arrogance
in any form. Understanding had nothing to do with it, and understanding
will never have anything to do with it. But learning how to be in the
flow of your being. Learning how to be in the flow of the movement of
love by what? Engaging in humility. Engaging in an absolute lack of
arrogance. In every case, that will exhibit. Your Holiness And it will
exhibit the presence of God, and it will confirm reality as reality.
Rather than the misunderstanding of reality that Everyone has been going
around confirming and believing. Honor the truth that has been given you
and be glad you do not understand it. Miracles are natural to God. And
to the one who speaks for him, who is the one that speaks for God. Well,
as long As you're claiming not to be the holy Son of God, it isn't going
to be you, is it? But it is going to be you with a capital Y. It's going
to be the Holy Spirit. That in you, which is nothing more than your
right mind. The presence of God But When in a moment of humility An
absence of arrogance, you are willing to be present. Without
manipulation of any sort. The movement of the Holy Spirit can register
with you. And a miracle occurs. Healing occurs, blessing occurs. Release
from bondage occurs. And someone is blessed and you are blessed. The
presence of God has been confirmed and the presence of the Holy Spirit
has been confirmed. Now, here's the hard part to take. The presence of
the Holy Spirit that has been confirmed. Has been the presence of what
you divinely are confirmed uh oh. The presence of the holy Son of God
that you are has been confirmed. You are not going to wake up without
being involved. You're not going to wake up without being blessed.
Awakening is not going to occur without you being changed from the tips
of your toes. Where You won't be reluctant. To realize and know and
embrace the fact that you are the holy Son of God. And That it's your
good fortune. To have as your right and even your obligation, I'm going
to say. T Live in this world as a holy Son of God. As the presence of
holiness. I know some of you are feeling uncomfortable. At these words
You think you're gonna stand out like a sore thumb? Well, let me ask you
this. If you're walking down the street tomorrow, knowing you're the
holy Son of God, Well, something outlandish will happen. Anybody who is
near you will be near someone who's not sick. They'll be walking past
someone who isn't full of fear. They'll be walking by someone who has a
full head of hair, really outrageous, right? They'll walk past someone.
Who's incapable of being reactive or misinterpreting what they might be
doing. You're really outlandish. They'll be walking past someone who
will never die. They'll be walking past someone who Apparently is in the
prime of their life. Not overly young, not overly old. They'll be
walking by someone who's rather good looking because symmetry and
balance. Is there In everything about them. No. You know, you'll
probably go unnoticed. Except that your presence will be a blessing. So
let's stop using these silly excuses for not waking up. for not
embracing. The idea and the reality of holiness, the magnitude of your
holiness. Let's stop using silly arguments. For delaying the embrace and
embodiment of your holiness. And in the process, you'll stop denying
God. And in the process, God will be confirmed in the world. Thy will be
done, oh. Many of you say it every day. Thy will be done on earth as it
is in heaven. Whoa, wait a minute. On earth, here now? If your
invulnerability becomes yours. If you're Symmetry and balance becomes
yours if your wholeness becomes yours. What are you delaying for? What
self-righteous reason could you possibly have? That justifies Suffering
A moment longer Let the Holy Spirit's understanding of the miracle be
enough for you. Yield to it. Just let it be. And let it Be that which
affects your presence at every moment, every day. In the here and now.
Do not turn away from the blessings that have occurred for others in
your life because you were there in a moment of innocence and humility
with them. The healings, the transformations that have occurred. Don't
turn away from them. Those are the witnesses. And these blessings. That
have been extended from your presence. have confirmed that Your Holiness
is here. Stop not wanting to. Have holiness evidenced in your life.
Forget about what you think you'll look like to others. As I said,
you'll probably be unnoticed. The only thing that would make you stand
out to anyone would be the utter peace and harmony that you exhibit. And
that's not what usually people are looking for or paying attention to.
They want a little drama. So Don't be afraid. Of the magnitude of Your
Holiness. In your humility, The doors of your mind of your being, are
thrown wide open because it takes arrogance to do the only thing
arrogance can, which is to close doors and to isolate. And to barricade.
Right now, it's becoming perfectly clear to you that you're going to
have to change the way you view things as you go through your day.
You're going to have to start paying attention to and looking for the
witnesses to what? Your holiness. You're going to have to get used to
that. And you're going to have to be willing to stop denying it. And
stop pushing it out of sight, out of mind. Ignoring it It is true just
as you fear. That to acknowledge him is to deny all that you think you
know. In other words, That which is nothing more than your wrong mind.
But it was never true. The wrong mind never actually existed. And to
lose it. It is to lose nothing that seemed to be something. And blinded
you to who you are and the kingdom of heaven. That it's your birthright
to be joying in the experience of right here, right now, today. And I
promise you that when in the midst of humility, you have this experience
here and now, What you call the material world and universe will become
obvious to you as the kingdom of heaven. It always has been. The kingdom
of heaven. It always has been the more that you imagine the kingdom of
heaven is. than what you have been experiencing. The only thing is, it's
not something you get into by virtue of dying sometime in the future.
It's something you're in at this moment and the only The thing necessary
to experiencing it is A simple sudden shift of perception. A shift of
perception that automatically occurs in Moments of humility. And
eternally endures. When nothing but humility. is engaged in In other
words, in the interminable absence of arrogant willfulness. Listen, shut
up and listen. Stop asserting yourself and become receptive. Be still
And no That I am God. That's God's. Expression of love to all of his
creation. Be still and know the only thing there is to know that God is
all there is to everything. And therefore, you can, you can stop this
silly practice of Arrogant control and self-improvement. And relax back
into your preexisting holiness. You're going to be where you've always
been. But you can look at it differently. A shift of perception will
occur, not a shift of what's perceived. Not a shift of creation that's
being observed. But a shift in the way it's being looked at. Now, you
know, this is not a prediction. It happens to be true. This is a year of
joy. In which your listening will increase. And last year was a, was a
year of joy in which listening increased. But I'm going to tell you.
that the increase will be greater this year. than it has been. And it
will be easier this year. Than it has been if there's the slightest bit
of willingness. If there is not the slightest bit of willingness, it
will be a more difficult year. Be willing to say, Father, what's the
truth here? Father, help me to feel the movement of love that looks like
this. Because I know that the movement of love is the meaning, is the
presence of you. Being creation. I I am willing to abandon my
competence. So that I might come into a clear awareness of myself as the
holy Son of God. Whose holiness is of great magnitude that embraces and
includes everything in all of creation. I want to have that experience
of what I truly already am. The breeze is blowing. Gently caressing.
Every single one of you. Into the clarity of your being. And your joy.
And you're in vulnerability. Let's make a point of enjoying it together.
Of being conscious of it together. And let this coming week be
different. I love you all.

