---
 title: Tares and wheat
 audiofn: Tares_and_wheat
---

## {{page.title}}

You will spontaneously and easily make the distinction between what is
worthy and what is not. You will be able to distinguish. The tears from
the wheat. You, you hear people throwing around the, the idea of
distinguishing the tears from the wheat. Uh, and you wait until the
tears and the wheat are full grown because that's when you can finally
recognize the difference. When they are young, they all look the same.
And so if you try to separate it, then you will throw out the good with
the bad. You have to distinguish between the tears and the wheat, and
then what you have to separate the tears from the wheat. An act occurs,
a decision that governs your actions. Occurs And in this case, the
action is the withdrawal of your investment of faith in what has no
value. Even if Everyone else mutually agrees. That what you are
abandoning is of value still. Until this distinction is made.
Vacillations between free will and imprisoned will. Will continue. You
will still be confused, and what you embody will manifest that
confusion. Essential to awakening is the making of distinctions. There
is a groundedness of being. And the groundedness of being is truth. What
is true And if you're not making any distinction between what is true.
And what you made up. You're lost. And so In the recognition that
awakening requires that distinction be made. You are going to seem to
step on the toes of egos. who want the right to believe anything. And to
say If you don't think it's right, that's just your opinion. It doesn't
count. It doesn't matter. It does matter. Now How are you going to know
what is true? How are you going to make the distinction? You're going to
have to ask somebody who knows the difference. You're going to have to
become a student. You're going to have to say. You know, I'm willing to
believe that I don't know what the truth is at the moment, and I want
someone who does truly know what the truth is to help me make the
distinction. And that is exactly what every one of your guides is for.
To help you redefine by distinguishing correctly. Between The illusions
that you think are real and realities. That are real. Because you know
what, you're not experiencing total illusion. You're experiencing
reality. Mixed in with a lot of Misunderstandings, a lot of mutually
agreed upon definitions. That in the end were made as a defense against
knowing the truth. So again, awakening isn't for wimps. It isn't going
to be for the namby pamby. It's going to be for those who are willing to
take on the task of making distinctions where everyone else doesn't want
to make distinctions. Now, That might seem scary. If you think it's your
job to convince everyone else. Of truth You know what? When you ask to
know what the truth is. Of your guide of the Holy Spirit of the Father.
And truth is uncovered to you. It's a relief There's peace with it. You
are relieved of the fear you were experiencing because you didn't know
what the truth is. And as I've said before, you feel safe. And you know
what happens when you're feeling safe. And you're not confused. You
don't behave. In an unloving way toward your brother. Or your sister
Just like you don't find me behaving in an unlovely or unkind way with
you. And so your presence. As you express the truth. Is one which makes
it quite possible. For the one you're sharing it with. To hear it with
fresh ears. And not be put off by you. Truth that is revealed to you,
the divine one that you are, is not something you will hit everyone else
over the head with. There will be no contest to it. So it isn't a scary
thing. If you engage in it. I encourage you to dare to Explore listening
for the truth so it might be revealed to you so that it might affect the
way you behave in the world. And you become an agent for change. Without
arousing fear. And resistance In your brothers and sisters.

