---
 title: Taste of heaven
 audiofn: Taste_of_heaven
---

## {{page.title}}

When you abandon the mutually agreed upon definitions because you have
become curious. To look in a new direction. That you have been Fissed
into checking out. And you abandon the mutually agreed upon definitions
and have a new experience. As I've said before, You can't help but share
it. But more than anything, You realize that You've experienced. A bit
of the kingdom of heaven. Without having done anything to deserve it.
Discovery Does not happen as the result of personal effort. It only
happens because you're paying attention. And you're willing to look
where you haven't looked before. So If you have a taste of the kingdom
of heaven. And it causes you to have a whole new perspective. And you
didn't deserve it. And the experience has shown you that It takes no
skill to have the experience, only a certain undefendedness. It becomes
obvious to you. That your friend, your neighbor, your sister, your
mother, your son, whoever. can have the same experience too because it
doesn't have to be deserved. Absolutely everyone is susceptible to this
kind of experience without qualifications. Wow Now all of a sudden
you're seeing them in a new way. You're seeing that. They don't have to
measure up to some standard. In order to have insight. And that because
you had the experience. And therefore we're evidently deserving of
having the experience. Then in spite of the way you've been looking at
your neighbor and how negatively you've been judging him or her to be.
They deserve it too. And in that clarification, You find that you've
abandoned your judgment, because suddenly you realize that your judgment
meant nothing. And now you can stand with them on their behalf without
even saying a word. You can stand with them on behalf of their having
the very same wonderful. Revelation Because you had it. Without
deserving it, and they deserve to have it without deserving it also, and
there is love in you. That you embrace them with. You see? The message
you then give to them is the truth that their minds are similarly
constructive. You see, and there's joy. And I'll tell you Your presence
is inspiring. To everyone Because you are more benign yourself. You
can't help but embrace them with the love that you found yourself
embraced by. You have a vision about them that they might not be having
about themselves. So The miracle worker isn't you. But it's who you end
up being when you don't have yourself on your mind as a something at
all. And who you turn out to be. The miracle worker. Is that because You
have dared With help To Abandon your fear. A faith in God Abandoning
your fear. of no longer committing to the mutually agreed upon
definitions. You have abandoned your allegiance to everyone else's
opinion of you. So that you might stand alone in the void. Because in
the void. You can Be curious. To know what everything is separate and
apart from. The mess Of existence in the middle of mutually agreed upon
definitions. Now This is not something otherworldly and it's not
something impossible. It's not something difficult. And every time any
one of you Simply chooses to become still within yourself and say,
Father, help me to see the truth. You are turning toward the altar. You
are relinquishing your allegiance to all of the agreed upon definitions
that has been given to everything. So that Another way of seeing this
might be presented to you, not. be figured out by you. And the answer
The answers come. They come every day. Most of the time you don't hear
them, but sometimes you do, and that's all the more otherworldly it is.
That's all the more difficult it is. And the point is To do this And do
it and do it and do it more frequently, more frequently, more frequently
until you're not doing anything else. So that you might always
experience being in perfect harmony with it. Ultimately The experience
of being perfectly in harmony with it. Will, for lack of better words,
go through a blur. The distinction between you cooperating with it. As
something different from you that you're cooperating with will blur. And
You will experience yourself as it. Not as an observer of it. So It's a
wonderful adventure. And it's not complicated. And it only has to do
with your bringing your willingness. To invite A new perspective. that
you haven't created. And that others around you who are still dreaming
dreams haven't created for you either. It can come as easily as you're
saying throughout the day. What should I do now that will be in harmony?
With the Father's will for me. You keep inquiring. And you must always
know that you can refuse if what you're told stretches you too much. You
can refuse. You can be stubborn and say explain more. But the point is
to be constantly turned toward the altar. Constantly wanting to know
what fulfills the father's purpose here. It takes trust. And the
blessing is greater than anything you can imagine. And I will tell you
this. When you listen deeply. And in effect turned toward the altar.
You're coming into harmony with the Father's will. will not bring any of
you. To any kind of ruin. And by God Be glad. That guidance is given
you. That doesn't hold you. To your poor teeny thought models of what It
is acceptable And appropriate I, I really encourage all of you. To try
to find some delight. In being open to That which hasn't been included.
In the mutually agreed upon definitions that you've been binding
yourselves by. By Withdrawing your allegiance to them enough. To have
some curiosity. To say Father, I, I really would like to experience the
truth. And it doesn't have to be ultimate truth. Ultimate ultimacy can
be found in simplicity. Don't make it complicated for yourselves. Dare
to enjoy. All of the opportunities that you will be provided with in
order for you to be miracle ready. Because I will tell you That those
are the things that are being prepared for you every moment of every day
of every year. And to be miracle ready. Means To be willing in the most
unexpected places. To extend love Miracles. The revelation of what is
real. are constantly being presented to you. By the experience of being
itself. Because Being Is God in action. But with the allegiances you
have to your mutually agreed upon definitions, you usually only leave a
little crack for The miracle to come through. So Be willing To let Big
miracles happen. Because big miracles are being given. Don't let through
just a little bit of love. Ask for love in its fullness. To find an
avenue through you. I love you.

