---
 title: Teachers as BEers
 audiofn: Teachers_as_BEers
---

## {{page.title}}

I need teachers who are going to Teach by being love rather than
Teaching fear I need Devoted beers. I need Those Who are willing to come
from that place of excellence within themselves in the beginning with
me. So that you might get the feel. For coming from that place of
excellence in you. Because this allows you to be the presence of love.
The embodiment of the Father's will. That constitutes the light that
illumines every little itty-bitty corner of life. I need teachers of
truth rather than teachers of illusion. But I don't need A concept of
teachers. I don't need someone. Being a teacher. The word teacher is not
the designator of a position. Truly A teacher is one Who is simply being
With excellence. As a brother, To his brothers and sisters as a sister.
To her brothers and sisters. As that which is inseparable from The
earth, the plants, the birds, the universe. As something That has as its
conscious intent. The desire To make and keep Everything in his
experience whole because everything in his experience is worthy of it. A
teacher is one who is willing to extend love. Truth Rather than fear.
And illusion I need you to be who you really are. Because that's the way
you wake up and when you wake up. The brotherhood is more consciously
whole. Because there isn't some part of the brotherhood having committed
themselves to fitful dreams. and who are therefore not present with us.
Not enjoying their birthright. And in effect disallowing us from
experiencing. The As part of The wholeness of us as a conscious
experience. Don't get hung up on the word teachers. I need devoted beers
of love who share my aim of healing the mind.


