---
 title: The temple and the Altar
 audiofn: The_temple_and_the_Altar
---

## {{page.title}}

The body cannot be used as a means for attaining the atonement. The
atonement principle is love. And atonement is an act of love arising out
of the Living presence of the principle in you. Thus, the body does not
become a means of attaining the atonement but as a means of expressing
it. As a means of giving it. You see the difference. If the body It's a
temple Well, uh, It makes a lot more sense if you say the emphasis on
beautiful bodies. is a sign of the fear of atonement. And an
unwillingness to reach the altar itself. It's easier to see that a
preoccupation with presenting a good human form. is a good way of
covering up your heart. If you're connected to your heart. You'll be the
presence of love. Unshaven, hair unkempt. Not caring at all. About a
beautiful structure, a beautiful presentation, you see. The real beauty
of the temple cannot be seen with the physical eye. So preoccupation
with the form. Preoccupation with the exterior. It is indeed the way you
cover up and make safely hidden. The love that you are. The love that it
is your function. To be embodying Spiritual sight you may see the
structure. But that is not where its attention is drawn. It's attention
is drawn to the reason it's there, which is to Embrace The altar
Spiritual sight comes. To be in communion with the altar in the temple.
And therefore doesn't notice the temple. Because the temple isn't what
it came to see.

