---
 title: The Voice for Truth
 audiofn: The_Voice_for_Truth
---

## {{page.title}}

You must more diligently than ever before, ask when you are expressing
yourself, Is this the voice for fear? That I'm giving voice to. Or is
this the voice for truth? That I'm giving a voice to. If it's not the
voice for truth, That I'm giving voice to. I'm engaged in Nothing And
there's no meaning. Nor is there any value present in it anywhere. And I
don't wish To be meaningless. I don't choose to pretend to have the
capacity. To be meaningless. And so I'm going to choose. For my right
mind. I'm going to choose for it. By shutting up the voice for fear.
That I've been engaged in. And My apparent capacity to be proactive out
from my present sense of myself. And I'm going to Settle down. I'm going
to abandon my arrogance. I'm going to shut up and listen after having
become curious to know the truth. about whatever is going on. And then
listen for my right mind to respond. Which it is waiting only for my
permission. To do And I will do this no matter what the physician has
said. I will do this no matter what the lawyer has said. I will do this
no matter what. Anyone is saying. So that I might Bring the voice for
truth. Into the world Embody it. And make the gift of it. And I will be
willing to share. The voice for truth. Without reservation. I will be
willing to share it wholly. With no strings. I will let it be. The
uninhibited and uncontrolled movement of love. That it is And I will let
love do its perfect work. I will yield To the way things work. I love
you very much. All of you.

