---
 title: The Plan of Atonement
 audiofn: The_Plan_of_Atonement
---

## {{page.title}}

Those who are released. will join in releasing their brothers. It's a
spontaneous response. If you're suddenly filled with joy, everyone else
will know it. Not because you must share it with others, but because
it's very difficult to keep it a secret. Have you ever seen someone who
has discovered that a surprise they were planning for someone else is
actually going to work? The plan they had is actually going to work, and
they find out that it's going to work right in front of the person it's
supposed to be a surprise for. And how difficult it is, actually how
impossible it is for the person who is going to be surprised not to
notice that something unusual is going on and begin to ask about it.
Those who are released will join in releasing their brothers, for this
is the plan of the atonement, for this is the way it works. You see, the
plan of the atonement is the plan. Of the atonement is That what works
works. You get it? The plan isn't some special plot or design for a
special circumstance. The plan of the atonement is That the way things
are elicit the experience of the way things are. The plan of the
atonement is that when you begin to engage in the atonement, you come
into alignment with the way things work divinely speaking, and when you
come in align into alignment with the way things work, things begin to
work that way. Not because it's a plan, but because Truth Because truth
embodies itself. Love embodies itself. The way being bes. becomes
obvious when you let yourself into the atonement. So when you let
yourself feel forgiven because someone has uncovered your innocence to
you. You cannot help but feel joy. And you cannot help but release your
brother or sister from grievances you have held against them. Because
it's obvious to you that without having done anything to deserve it, you
are innocent. Guiltless and your guiltlessness honors you fully,
illuminates you in your perfection fully. And because you know you did
nothing to earn it, you paid no penance, but the truth about you has
been illumined within you, to you, and you feel it. You know
inescapably. That this is utterly true about those you were holding
grievances against. In discovering your innocence, you feel whole. And
you realize that any grievance you have been holding against another for
something they took away from you. You realize That the grievance is uh
invalid because in this experience of your innocent wholeness. It's
clear to you that they took nothing away from you. And therefore no
grievance is justified. The grievance is silly. So, when you let the
atonement in, Things begin to work the way they work. The plan of the
atonement is implemented. Those who are released must will join in
releasing their brothers. For this is the plan of the atonement. And the
plan of the atonement is a spontaneous happening. It is the way things
work divinely. Happening and being experienced consciously by you. As a
spontaneous event. Not the result of a devised plan. You see what I'm
saying now? OK.


