---
 title: The answer
 audiofn: The_answer
---

## {{page.title}}

Incompetence is One being empty of competence, empty of success. The
emptiness engendered by fear must be replaced by forgiveness. Now what
does that mean? It means the withdrawal of the ego's definition of
what's in that dark corner. And in the forgiveness of Your preconception
about it, your abandonment of your preconception about it. You can begin
to recognize. That the fact that you don't have the answer and that you
don't have control. is truly the answer. That you need to yield into so
that the acknowledgement of it might bless you with relief and peace and
joy and spontaneous clarity. That allows for the correction. Of The
need. that brought you to your point of desperation. That is what the
Bible means by there is no death. Well, this, this, you could say is My
way in the course. Of pointing out That the ego left to its devices
would call for suicide. If forgiveness doesn't occur. And you don't
embrace. The horrible answer. That you are incompetent. And the blessing
of the realization that because you're incompetent, you must never have
been meant to be competent and therefore it is useless to try any longer
to do the impossible. You see, And in that recognition and embrace that
it's useless to do what's impossible. You are ripe for Communion to
occur. For connection to occur to replace the isolation. That you had
fought so dearly for. So that you could get to the top of the barrel on
your own and make your mark and prove that you really are something.
When, when you are looking at God. And saying that isn't God. You are
denying your source. And when you deny your source, it is like
strangling yourself. You need your source. You need the conscious
experience of your connection because there's no way to exist without
it. When you yield. To the fact that That being itself is a state of
need. And you yield to the Father. And you experience your oneness with
the Father. And you Don't cease to be needy because you can't ever
become not needy. Your defenselessness in the presence of God allows you
to be filled by the presence of God. Now actually It allows the
conscious awareness that you have always been filled by the presence of
God to register with you. And now in your experience of wholeness.
Enlightenment, fulfillment. Need And fulfillment of the need. are
inseparable and simultaneous. And because you're experiencing utter
fulfillment and no sense of lack. There is no experience of need to
succumb to or think that you have to overcome. But it is important for
you to understand as you are letting go of the ego frame of reference
and the ego definitions. That you will never arrive at a point. of not
being in need. And you must yield to that truth knowing. That it's the
truth. So that you don't bring any vestige of ego or attempt to bring
any vestige of ego along with you. Saved in your hip pocket. So that
when you arrive at the point where there's no need, you can really
assert control. You see,

