---
 title: The need
 audiofn: The_need
---

## {{page.title}}

You all need each other. Because Every single one of you. is an integral
part of the whole. And therefore every single one of you is an integral
part of each one of you. Just as each one of you is an individual aspect
of God, if I may put it that way, every one of you is an integral aspect
of each of you. When you are not experiencing the unity, the oneness.
Your oneness with everyone and their oneness with you because you're
claiming private authority, private self-created existence. Then you are
denying yourself. Because you've excluded. The awareness of everyone
else's being. Part of you. And when you're in that state, in that frame
of mind, Where you're holding yourself to be autonomous and separate
from everyone else. and are in denial of your whole mess. You need To
realize that you need everyone else because only in embracing everyone
else can you come back into The conscious experience of your whole mess.
And the fact that you cannot be autonomous and independent. When you
deny some aspect of yourself, you put yourself in a place of needing
reconnection. And that's a real need. When you Deny God. By claiming to
be a self-existent presence. You're denying your source. And in that
denial, you are immediately faced with the utter need. To come back into
the conscious experience. That you are not your source and the conscious
experience of not being separated from your source and so you need to
return to God. need is another word For an absolute requirement. For
re-embracing that of yourself which you are in active denial of. Now.
Those of us who are awake. Who number you might say more than those of
you who are still dreaming dreams. Experience a disconnection from you.
Because you are ignoring us. The rest of you In favor of A conscious
attempt to be autonomous. As long as you are ignoring us. Because you
are preoccupied with trying to be independent. We do not experience Our
wholeness Because you're withholding it. And I have said before, That
this creates, for lack of better words, a sadness or a longing. To be
with you fully. While you are being with us fully and not ignoring or
denying. The aspect of you that all of us are. But we are not sad
because we're awake. Nevertheless, there is an imbalance. Which Cries
for being put back into balance. Because It's an imbalance that is an
illusion. But which part of the Brotherhood Those who are dreaming the
dreams are suffering from unnecessarily. All of what God has created,
all of God's creation needs all. Of God's creation. But when none of it
is being denied, There is no experience of need. There is only the
experience of fullness, wholeness, fulfillment. If any one of you, any
two of you, Decides to separate. And ignore us and have your imaginary
Experience now. By your Ignorance of us. There is an inequity And there
is a need for that inequity to be resolved. And so we need You To come
back home into your right mind where you can enjoy us and we can enjoy
you. With nothing interfering. And yet we are awake. Which means that we
We are experiencing no lack. You know what it's like a family. A family
that has experienced itself. harmoniously as a family. And then one of
the youngsters in the process of growing up. decides to deny the family
so as to have an experience of his own. All of the other members of the
family know that this one is still part of the family. But the fact that
this one Has so to speak dissociated himself from the family. Means that
there's a vacancy. That hopefully will be Filled once again. So that the
experience of family is enjoyed by every member of the family. Who you
each are. As God is being you. is something we experience fully. But the
part of you that you have set apart from us. is not available And we
await The return of that part of your attention. If you woke up
completely today, You would find yourself immediately. Engaged in
Facilitating The balancing out of the inequity. Your attention and love
would be present on behalf of those who were still sleeping and dreaming
dreams of distress and limitation. Just as I am doing. Right now. Chan.
The need is for the brotherhood to be experiencing its brotherhood.
Totally, consciously. Why? Because anything different from that doesn't
represent the truth. I am able to reach many of you directly. Before you
have awakened. And so I have the opportunity. To employ you, if I may
put it that way. In an activity that you would immediately be engaged in
if you woke up this moment. And so to speak in the strata of the dream.
The avenues for The truth to penetrate is increased, thus weakening the
dream state by virtue of any one of you. Who hears my words. And becomes
clearer about your function. And finds within himself or herself. A love
For expressing the truth. And passing it on and being the presence of
love, not only facilitating your more rapid awakening. But The weakening
of the dream state itself. I need you all To be what you are, what you
truly are. And I need you to be it consciously. And Not silently within
your own mind, but to embody it in your behavior toward your brothers
and sisters. I need you I need you to do what you would be doing if you
woke up at this moment. I need you. To be the presence of love. That
uncovers The Uselessness of the imaginative. Sense of separation. So
that it's abandoned more easily. There's no way to need God and have God
without having your brothers and sisters and all of creation included.
What you're longing for. is not to be alone. And ultimately it's life.
Infinite eternal. Indivisible Harmonious Life God That you're longing
for the experience of. Not as an experiencer of it, but as an
inseparable. as inseparable from it. You are sick and tired. of sitting
on the outskirts. Not experiencing your wholeness. Your oneness with
God. You need To let something else into your space. And share
authority. At the least And when it comes to waking up, You must, you
must give up authority altogether and yield to God. So there in so many
words, you might have the experience of riding on God's shoulder with
him everywhere he engages in creation, so that you are there to share.
The full experience of it with him as he is sharing it with you. And in
that camaraderie. Of sharing The emergence of creation. You know who you
are. And you find that every single one of the brotherhood. right up
there on God's shoulders having the same experience and so you're not
just sharing it with God, it's a conscious sharing with Absolutely
everyone. And you all know that you're sharing the experience together.
And that is an experience of joy. That at the moment you can't conceive.
And there is no loss of experience of identity. There's only the absence
of a pre-existing belief that if you had half a chance to do it
yourself, you could do it better. I love you all. Oh

