---
 title: The one you divinely are
 audiofn: The_one_you_divinely_are
---

## {{page.title}}

What is one's job when one is awake? I have mentioned before. That the
movement of God is a movement that is best described in the words
Behold, I make all things new. In other words, creation. If we have a
job. It is the activity. Of standing. In constant awe of creation. You
might ask why when there is creation. To constantly stand in awe of, why
would I be taking time out from that. To be with you. Well, I'll tell
you something. It isn't two different things. It is awesome. To be in
your presence. Because you are part of this. Movement of creation that
is God infinitely expressing. And so you see, I have the constant
inconsistency presented to me of The awesome movement of creation that
is reflected in you. And the way you are currently seeing yourselves and
believing yourselves to be. And it's because I can perceive the
difference. That I can elicit your Greater clarity. I can help pull it
out of you, so to speak, and encourage you and inspire you to look at
things with More innocent eyes with less confidence that you know what
it all is. And so that there's a curiosity in everything you see. To
discover divinity there rather than just part of a physical universe.
It's all the kingdom of heaven. None of it is a physical universe. So it
is delightful. It's It is For lack of better words, awesome. To be in
your presence. There is a difference between who you divinely are and
your current presentation of yourself. And the witnessing that must be
done. Must be done in terms of the one you divinely are. It's a joy to
be with you. With who you really are right here right now. And there's
more joy. Present here for you to experience. If you will just become
less sure that you know. What all of this is that you're seeing. And
what you are. Reality again is What you would call radical idealism.
Waking up It is a matter of discovering reality right where you are. The
ideal right where you are. And thus rendering it Practically real. So
that you're not experiencing separation from it in any way. And you have
a right to expect a fuller experience of everything than you're
experiencing. And the essential step is for you to become Unlimited to
abandon the limits with which you look at each other. It's like this is
your dream. And you're the ones who must take the step to wake up. And
you have to break the mutual agreement between each other, and I can't
do that for you. I have done it between myself and all of you. And
because I have, I can speak with you. Because you haven't, you can't
speak with each other in the fullness of the glory of what you are and
in the fullness of its transforming effect. And so where the mutual
agreement to nonsense is occurring is where the things must change.

