---
 title: The impossibility of being lost
 audiofn: The_impossibility_of_being_lost
---

## {{page.title}}

There is something in particular I want to share with you today before
we get into any questions you might have. The subject could be called
The impossibility of being lost. Or it could be called. The
inevitability of Waking up And I want to give you two images. All of you
have, I'm sure, seen a roulette wheel. And the ball is spun around a
little groove before it, the speed drops and it falls into the turning
wheel. And what I want you to do is to imagine that that groove that the
ball spins around at the beginning is at the top of a very large funnel.
And although the ball spends some time in the groove repeating its
track. It finally loses momentum and falls into the upper part of the
funnel, and it continues to go around and around, but as it goes slower
and slower, it gets lower and lower in the funnel until it arrives at
the bottom tip of the funnel and falls out. You could say that. As you
made a choice. To Exert self will. To say, Father, I'd rather do it
myself, or Father, I'd rather do it my way. And you, you seemed to
create for yourself circumstances that the father was not creating for
you. That is the equivalent of the ball being spun in the groove at the
top of the funnel. The fact is though that you do not have enough
willpower to keep the ball going at sufficient speed to keep it in the
groove. And so momentum is lost, and mind you in in this funnel, if you
will imagine that this funnel is sitting in the middle of infinity, it's
as though you in the choice to be willful abandoned infinity for a fixed
track located somewhere in infinity and Back to the illustration is the
path of your willfulness loses momentum and you get lower and lower in
the funnel and finally come to the tip. What happens? Through no effort
of your own. You fall back out into the middle of infinity and you are
not enclosed in the funnel. Arriving at the bottom of the funnel and
falling out of the limited circumference of the funnel happens because
not enough willpower could continue to be expressed to maintain you in a
seemingly confined environment. Waking up, coming back into the full
infinite experience of being is inevitable. And does not take effort on
your part. It doesn't take learning on your part. It doesn't take
becoming better and better. Now, the other example I would like to use
would be that of, um, let us imagine the Pacific Ocean. And there are
little potential drops of water that say, um, remember that ride we
took? I want to take that ride again. Let's let's get up near the
surface. And so these potential drops of water get up near the surface
where evaporation can occur and their essential H2OS becomes a vapor and
goes up into the sky. And Its bigness is lost. It's separated now from
the wholeness of what it was, and it dances around and floats around
until there's enough condensation over land that now this this ride that
started with the rise from the ocean continues with the condensation and
in falling and. The falling can take a number of forms. It can be as
drops of water or it can be as flakes of snow or it can be as a ball of
hail, and one of the little drops remembers from the last trip that it
was going down a particular river and it's hoping this. Lifetime, this
trip that it will be able to manage to get over into an eddy in a
particularly beautiful broad expanse of of the river so it can stay and
enjoy the The beauty in effect so it can hold up its inevitable trip
back to the ocean. Another one says last time. I landed As snow and
melted off into a river. And he says this time. I want to land. I want
to fall over land and see what that experience will be. And so It does
fall on land and it does get absorbed into the ground and it does go
into the groundwater and eventually into an aquifer and it eventually
finds itself coming up through the pipes in someone's house and it gets
drunk and then it gets eliminated and then it goes through a sewage
processing plant which it doesn't find particularly pleasant, and he
says, I want to avoid this the next trip. Uh, and, and there, of course,
could be a million scenarios. But the point is, That like the drop of
water in the sewage plant, it gets the effluent or the processed water
gets pumped out and it joins with all of the rest of the water, which is
one way or another, heading back to the ocean. The inevitability of
coming back to your source is absolute. And the drop of water has to do
nothing to get there, except to function the way water functions. So So
here you are And your experience is easy or rough. Pleasant or
unpleasant. And if there is enough unpleasantness, you're likely to say.
I'm failing I'm I'm lost But the only way you can be lost is in the
middle of the process of the inevitability of waking up, and so you
cannot actually be lost. You cannot actually keep yourself from moving
back home. Because the movement is beyond your control, beyond your
willful control. Your movement back to Full open consciousness. It is
inevitable because your trip away from it is happening in the middle of
it. Just like the limited experience of the funnel is occurring in the
middle of infinity. And because you can't maintain willfulness
indefinitely. Whatever momentum your willfulness brought into play will
lose its strength and You will effortlessly find that All the time you
were making things difficult for yourself by virtue of willfulness, you
were still on your way out of the effects of willfulness. You were still
on your way home. You can't be unnatural indefinitely because God didn't
give you the power to do that. Do you see? So what does that mean? It
means in practical terms that you can't be lost, that no matter how
rugged things seem to be going, and no matter how willful you know you
being. You are still doing this. In the middle of the movement of the
river that's taking you home. So You don't have to get hung up on how
well you're doing. Or judging yourself or assuming that it's going to
take 10 more lifetimes of refining your soul before you'll be worthy.
Because worthiness has nothing to do with it, how good you're being has
nothing to do with it. All it has to do with is An expression of
willfulness. That unlike the energizer Bunny will run down. So now If
you are inevitably going to wake up, if you are inevitably going to come
back into the full conscious experience of your right mind. Then instead
of trying to Improve yourself. You can begin to yield. Into the unknown,
into what you're not in control of. With confidence. That everything
will configure around you. In a way that identifies what you truly are.
Just because that's the way it works. Do you see what I'm saying? You
know, Some people question. Me or question. What I'm saying when I talk
about Getting into the not thinking place, going into the silence. Going
into the silence can be misused. It can be used as a way of escaping
from things. But that is not what I am talking about when I'm talking
about going into the silence. When I'm talking about going into the
silence. I'm talking about going into that place where willfulness is
not being employed. It's especially not being employed by thinking
processes. And I encourage you to go into this place. Why? So that you
can be safe. No, so that you're in the place where you're making so
little noise with the chattering of your mind that you can be infilled
with the inevitable influx of Inspiration and revelation. Of the
father's point of view. Whether it is In filling you directly from the
father or from your guide who is working on your behalf, on behalf of
the father. Or whether it's the Holy Spirit. It's because The void, the
silence, the emptiness is pregnant with. The fuller conscious experience
of being that it's your birthright to be experiencing. So what am I
trying to say? I'm trying to say that if awakening is inevitable, if you
cannot be lost. And that if you abandon the practice of willfulness, you
will spontaneously and effortlessly wake up. I, I am trying to convey to
you that You can dare to have confidence in the way things work that are
beyond your control because the way things work. Stand on your behalf.
In terms of Moving you back into your right mind. The full conscious
experience of enlightenment, the full conscious experience. Of being all
and only That which God is expressing of himself slash herself right
where you are. No longer having Any experience. Any illusory experience
of being separate from your source, no longer experiencing an illusory
sense of having a private mind of your own separate from the mind of
God. I'm trying to convey to you that everything, absolutely everything
that is real, is on your side. And the way it works. Cannot help but
support you back into. The conscious experience of the kingdom of
heaven. Of you feeling utterly and completely fulfilled beyond your
wildest imagination of what fulfillment is right here as you sit here
today. So if you don't have to work at waking up, If you don't have to
work at bettering yourself. And you can dare to yield. Into the way
things work. Then What is left for you to do? Something I talk about all
the time. Be curious. You don't be curious to save yourself from
something. You be curious because you're missing out. On more of what
God is being and more of what you're capable of experiencing. By virtue
of not having been curious because you're working so damned hard to
survive. And keep that ball. Rolling around the inside of the funnel
from getting to the point of the funnel and falling out. You see? Let
every day be a day in which you bring curiosity into play. Now curiosity
to find out what makes that bastard so malicious or so terrible or so
resistant or so stubborn. That's, you don't want to be curious as to the
why of of something ugly going on. You want to be curious to see what
God is being there in spite of what you are seeing. So that the vision
of what is really going on there can supplant. Your current perception.
So you want to be always curious to that about everything which is just
beyond your present sense of it. That which God is being right there,
just beyond your sense of it. And curiosity, well, Isn't it fascinating,
isn't it delightful to watch a child, especially the younger the child
is, express curiosity? Well, Start expressing that same delightful
curiosity every day. Instead of assuming That you have fouled things up
so bad that you are permanently lost and there's no point in being
curious. There's no point in doing anything other than Trying to cope
with the problem. Trying to master the problem on your own through the
use of your will over the circumstance or situation. I mean to convey to
you that That waking up is less complicated than you make it. And you
can be lighter about it. You see.

