---
 title: The place of Excellence
 audiofn: The_place_of_Excellence
---

## {{page.title}}

Every single one of you has in you. A place of excellence. Excellence of
beauty, excellence of intelligence, excellence of morality. Excellence
of wisdom. Excellence That is divine. It's absolutely stable. Unchanging
It's your birthright to be experiencing that. And that should be the
measuring stick with which you look at yourself. And so I'm reminding
you that it's there. It's time to wake up and not only open your eyes
but become conscious. If you will be alert enough to do that and
practice declining to take the invitation to be miserable. And then
Remember that even at that moment there is an unchanging place of
excellence with a capital E. And Let your attention be drawn to that
place. Let your attention go to that place, even just the idea of that
place. Because it's there. So that you may determine your day with
excellence. Not just so that you will have an excellent day. But
everyone you come in contact with will have an experience of excellence
that they will be blessed by as well. This place of excellence is
divine. It's divinity. is The presence of God in you. And that's why it
can be excellent. And that's why it's excellence can lift you beyond
whatever the limits are. And it's what will As more and more of you
access it, begin to change your world. Because you will be bringing this
excellence with a capital E. Into expression. Blessing others, inspiring
others, frightening others who don't want to change, but Not threatening
them. And so although they may resist it. They will not reject it, and
that is the key. And the place of excellence in you. Will cause you to
be utterly original. In your expression of that truth. And that is why
you can be lifted out of whatever the current limitations are that
you're binding yourselves to. This place of excellence in you. Has no
response to peer pressure. Because it's responding to its source, which
is God who is utterly original in every moment. And so herein lies your
freedom. What you find yourself knowing as a result of the connection.
Becomes a transcendent thing for everyone. It means you're not bound to
who you thought you were yesterday. You're not bound to who others think
you are today based on yesterday. You're not bound to the laws and rules
that your teachers taught you. But because this is a place of excellence
with a capital E. There will always be order. There will always be that
which Facilitates the expression of intelligence. And therefore,
improvement of what you call the human condition. The place of
excellence in you when you connect with it. Causes you. To be the place.
Where transformation is embodied and expressed. Outwardly, vocally in
the world. In a way that invites Harmonious change no matter how gradual
it is. So I encourage you At this point, when you're not feeling abject
misery and suffering. And feeling therefore under pressure to do
something about it. Take this unstressful time. To make the connection
with this place of excellence in you. You're capable of being. An
embodiment of excellence. You do have wisdom. You do have a capacity
right now, and ability to know. Transcendental truth, transformational
truth, and you do have the ability to fearlessly and calmly give it
voice. The place of excellence in you, its nature is love. And it knows
how to be appropriate in the face of apparent human need. So dare, dare
to connect with this place of excellence in you. And dare dare to
hesitate to open up your mouth and say anything. If you haven't taken
just a moment. To remember that it would be well to let what comes out
be an expression of wisdom. Rather than A knee jerk wise ass response.
That everybody expects. It's satisfying to know that there is a place of
capital E excellence in you. But I want you to not only connect with it,
but let that excellence show in the world. Because when it begins to
show in the world. The world begins to change. And you become an agent
for change. Not because you're trying to change something in the world.
But because you're being different yourself. In you there is a place of
excellence. Connect with it and let it show. Everyone will say thank
you.

