---
 title: The nothing place
 audiofn: The_nothing_place
---

## {{page.title}}

When one is in a state of equilibrium or balance, there's nothing
exciting about it. And exciting means that there is nothing exciting
about it means there is nothing fearful about it, but it doesn't mean
that it's not meaningful. It is not exciting to the ego. It is boring to
the ego. But I will tell you something. In that state of evenness. You
do Experience meaningfulness. And so it's not a void. And you do not
become dysfunctional in the world. And you Become more meaningful. To
those around you. So we're not talking about, we're really not talking
about something undesirable. You know what, in the book, of course, a
miracles. The very first lesson says, Nothing I see means anything. If
that's not a depressing statement, I don't know what is. And that's
lesson one. The blessing Of the nothing place is What exactly what you
found out that you can't stand it. The reason you can't stand it. It is
because it is completely antithetical to existence. But you know what,
most of you don't let yourself into a place where you're experiencing
nothing. Because you have it so filled with all of your thoughts and all
of your best judgments and your best ideas and your best imaginations
and it's it's just all you, you, you, you, you, busy, busy, busy, busy,
busy, and you don't even know that there's a nothing place. You don't
know, in other words, that there's a place that can be empty of the
busyness of you. You let yourself into that place that was empty of you.
Uh, empty of all the meanings for everything that you had for
everything, and you let yourself be in the void. The void is just a
stepping stone. It is a place absent of all of the busyness of your ego.
Your definitions, your ideas, blah blah blah. And you realize that In
the absence of you, And in the absence of everything, It's intolerable.
Because You've abandoned the meanings you gave to everything. And in the
void of nothingness, everything is meaningless, and you know that in
order for life to be worth experiencing, there has to be meaning. So
that's the benefit of the nothing place, of what I refer to as the not
knowing place. The moment you recognize at a deep level within yourself.
That there has to be meaning and you don't provide the meaning. And you
become curious as to what the meaning is. Then reality, the real meaning
of everything. can enter because there is room. You see. And so you need
to go on to the next step. Wow. What does this mean? Wow. What does this
mean? Wow. I have no idea what this means. God or source of existence.
What meaning are you expressing here? And let yourself be filled. I'll
tell you that one of the first One of the first things that you're
filled with Is this irrepressible love in embracing you. And it is so
pure. And it is so clear And it's so unequivocal. That there's not even
any space for you to say I don't deserve this. Instead, You for the
first time really know. That you are utterly lovable. And deserving.
That's the starting point. It honors you first, and from there, Begins
as you let it in. To find the meaningfulness in everything. And as you
begin to experience the meaningfulness of everything, it isn't just you
and everything, but it's everything is some part of the infiniteness of
you because you're not separated from it either. And so to go into the,
the void, to go into the nothing. To arrive at the point where the first
lesson of the course that says nothing I see means anything, to arrive
at that point. is Absolutely essential. Meaning is An absolutely
fundamental essential of existing. Meaning is a fundamental essential of
The conscious experience of being. The thing that I have to keep sharing
with people is that that what follows is not otherworldly. The meaning
The meaning is going to be about your, about the person sitting next to
you. The meaning is going to be about. The distressing person next to
you on the freeway. The meaning is about commitment and involvement and
Willingness to witness for the best in your brother rather than the ego
crap he is presenting or she is presenting. And the only way you're
going to be able to do that is if you have first from the void. Sad,
Father, source, whatever you want, whatever word you want to use. What
is your vision here? Of this one. Because until you have that vision,
you won't be able to extend love. All you'll be able to do is to react
to the ego crap that's being presented, the thoughtlessness, the, the
greed, the self-seeking, the one upmanship, blah blah blah. So that's
where it's at.


