---
 title: The Living Christ
 audiofn: The_Living_Christ
---

## {{page.title}}

To Christ is the living Christ. Now, today. I hesitate to say this. Only
because of the very Catholic way in which it is likely to be heard. But
the fact is, That I am the living Christ. The reason I hesitate to say
it. It is because it can be so easily misconstrued to mean that I am the
only living Christ. When the fact is that every single one of you are my
brothers and sisters and are equally the Christ. And the Christ of you
is the living Christ. The dynamic presence of God in this moment. I
refrain. From commenting. About history. And historical accuracy. It
doesn't matter because it isn't something to be relied upon. What needs
to be relied upon is the living Christ in this moment. That isn't out of
the past. But is out of the And I have to use words that involve time
even though time has nothing to do with it. The in the moment impulse of
God that is the movement of creation or God's self-expression that
constitutes you. And if you're looking for the Christ, don't look for
the Christ in history. Look for the In the moment impulse of God being
God. That constitutes your in the moment conscious experience of being
conscious. And the holiness of that experience of being conscious. The
only way that book can be of value to you is if it's causing you to
connect with and resonate with the living Christ in you now, and the
living Christ that I am now. Because that inner movement Of connection
And meaning is what moves you out of Your accumulated false ideas about
who and what you are. that are keeping you in a state of suffering. You
see, I don't care what book it is, whether it's a course in miracles or
any other holy book. The essential element Of your awakening. will
always be An inner movement. An inner experience of the impulse of God
in action. That whatever book you have been reading, has caused you to
Feel secure enough. To let control go enough. So that you could feel
That impulse of the living God in you, illuminating itself as the living
Christ that you are.

