---
 title: The Ultimate Healing
 audiofn: The_Ultimate_Healing
---

## {{page.title}}

The practice of the holy instant is where you shut up. Your own
thinking. Your own private thoughts. And you turn your attention to the
Father. Or the Holy Spirit To ask what is the truth here to step outside
of your best judgments, your Best thinking, your best logic. And your
supposed capacity to be able to um authorize meanings. And in making
that request, that invitation to joining with the Father. In the silence
Experiencing the influx of the father's perspective. Either directly
from the Father or through the Holy Spirit. Whose function it is to
reveal to you the father's perspective. As yours. So, we've been talking
about joining and being unjoined. Now we're talking about faith and
faithlessness. And it's bringing into clearer perspective. What the holy
instant is. It's bringing into clearer perspective what the difference
is between you, the holy Son of God that you are, and the you that got a
divorce from your father. And have existed for a very long time as an
orphan. So we're at a point now where being an orphan or being the holy
Son of God that you truly are. Can be seen to be the equivalent of
Faithlessness and faith. Faith we have found means you being joined with
the Father or you being joined with the Holy Spirit. In an act of
compliance of yielding to the Holy Spirit, why? Because it's nothing
more than your right mind, the purpose of which is to reveal to you.
Your birthright To have the perspective of the father as your
perspective with nothing interfering with it. Faithlessness is when you
choose to operate as though you're an independent agent where you never
check in with the Holy Spirit, you never check in with the Father. You
just do the best you can to get through your day and perhaps learn a
little bit better how to manipulate your brothers and sisters, so that
tomorrow might be more pleasant for you, even if it's less pleasant for
your brothers and sisters. Now To engage in faith is something you don't
have a lot of time for. Yes, you can conceive of engaging in the holy
instant. Now and then throughout the day but If I suggest That the goal
is to be doing it 24/7. 365 days a year, in other words, all the time.
Oh, that's, that's, that's an unrealistic demand. Let's look at it this
way. Imagine that you get on the plane. And you go to either England or
Australia. And you get off the plane and you rent a car. Immediately
you're faced with the task of sitting on the opposite side of the car
and driving on the opposite side of the road. Not only that, you're
faced with walking on the opposite side of the sidewalk. If you don't do
this, you have collisions with people or objects. And so if you're going
to enjoy your visit to Australia or England, you're going to have to pay
attention constantly. Just like I'm asking you. To engage in the holy
instant constantly why Because If you stay conscious while you're in
Australia or England, you won't have any collisions. You will have a
comfortable, enjoyable time. Likewise, if you will engage in the holy
instant, you will have a comfortable, enjoyable time. Now you all have
the capacity to pay that much attention. Your lack of paying attention.
In terms of the holy instant, in terms of choosing to be joined with the
Father or the Holy Spirit. It's causing you to experience everything as
sin, disease and death. It's causing you to experience substance as
matter. Vulnerable Unependable Unstable matter. But that's only If
you're choosing to be an orphan, if you're depending upon your own best
judgment, it's only if you're choosing to ignore your source. So Just as
not paying attention while you're driving from the opposite side of the
car on the opposite side of the street. Because Not paying attention
while you're doing that can cause your death and therefore it's
justifiable to pay attention. Likewise, if you're choosing to practice
faithlessness. If you're choosing to be in the world. On the basis of
the definitions you are giving to it. You're likewise. Faced with the
potential, the inevitability of death, aren't you so. The payoff is
great. If you're willing to practice the holy instant. And The negative
side. is so negative that There's really no reason not to try to
consistently, persistently. Choose for the holy instant. Engage in
faith. Intend to constantly be in the world with your Father or the Holy
Spirit. With you holding the Father's hand or the Holy Spirit's hand. So
you can see We're talking about actually changing. We're talking about
behaving differently. It has to do with changing from faithlessness to
faith, changing from the practice of independence to the practice of
joining. And being united with Your father Your right mind, the Holy
Spirit. Really doing something different. The problem all of you have
right now is that you think you have an option. You think you don't have
to pay attention because you already know how to drive on the right side
of the road. And so Because you know how to practice faithlessness,
because you know how to be an orphan. You think you have the choice of
continuing. Or engaging in the effort. Of shifting to faith. So there is
a call for a change of behavior. Now, When you get off the plane in
England or Australia. Everything looks the same and yet the behavior
relative to it is different. So what's happened? You left. A country
like the United States. Where you did things one way. And you got off
the plane and everything looked the same, and you do things a different
way. What's happened is that you have moved over a threshold in which
you have been translated from one set of meanings. For a world To
another set of meanings for a world, the same world. You see what I'm
saying? Waking up It is not a matter of moving from the world you're
familiar with to heaven. Some other world It will be the same world that
you're experiencing. As an independent authorizer, as an orphan. As one
practicing faithlessness. Wherein you begin to practice faith. And see
it a different way. Experience different meanings for it and behave
differently relative to it. And so You're going to have to learn. How to
be as though you are the Son of God when you still think you're a
mortal. Without the constant reminder of everyone around you who are
behaving as though they are the holy Son or daughter of God. So you will
not have the reinforcement that makes it seem more imperative to you.
Change To actually begin to mentally behave differently and physically
behave differently. But that's what it's called for. Now, you're in
relationship with everything. Absolutely everything Wherever you are
right now. Whether you're jogging or sitting. You are in relationship
with everything in your environment. Even if you don't know all of what
is there, you are in relationship to it. You're in relationship with
your body. But because you are in relationship to everything including
your body. And that needs to be clearer. Because there needs to be more
healing going on, which isn't going on because You're looking at your
body and your world and your brothers and sisters. With faithlessness
you're looking at it all from your own perspective unjoined with that
which knows the truth, that which knows of your holiness, that which
knows that all that exists. Is the infinite manifestation of an
expression of God. Your father, mother, your source. That in which you
have your being. The purpose set for your relationship is for you to
experience it. From faith in faith through faith meaning. Not confidence
you have in The thing you're in relationship with, but in that state of
mind which does not see itself or experience itself as separate from its
source, separate from the Father, separate from the Holy Spirit. Your
relationship is set for. The experience of being well. The experience of
being whole. Which will, if you're coming out of faithlessness appear to
be healing of your body we were going to say. Or your relationship with
your brother or sister. Or your relationship with your knee or your
elbow or your heart or your kidneys. Do you see what I'm saying? You
don't want to see your world and universe as something other than the
kingdom of heaven, because then you're practicing faithlessness. And
substance Will be matter Capable of Decay and death. Instability
undependability. But if you practice faith. By insisting upon being
joined Then you are where the father's laws prevail. And You will find
substance is spirit. The energy of God. You're going to be looking at
the same thing which I'm going to call substance. One way through
faithlessness you will see matter. The other way through faith you will
see spirit. Now you aren't going to see spirit until you're willing to
put forth the energy and the attention necessary to be present with your
body, your knee, your heart, your kidneys, your elbow joined with the
father. It's necessary to bring the effort for. To look at your body.
That which you are in relationship with. And look at it with the Father
instead of your best judgments, and I will tell you that under stress
your best judgments will be your worst judgments. And you will see the
result. Your experience of substance will be colored by the vantage
point you are using faithlessness or faith. Now, one of the mindsets you
all have is that There is something True about you. You are spiritual.
You are a soul. You are a spirit, even you might say. And you As a
general rule, feel. That this is eternal. But your body mm. Your body is
mortal material. It will die. It is not eternal. That's a mindset,
that's a, that is a preexisting mindset. That you are bringing with you
into your practice of the holy instant, and you must understand that in
the practice of the holy instant you can't continue to embrace that
mindset. Because that mindset. Creates a relationship between you and
your body as though they're separate they're not identical. And that
your body um really can't do anything other than Grow up. Old Grow
unwell. Sicken and die. And that kind of a relationship arises out of
faithlessness. And it's an unhealthy relationship. It's you standing in
a constant state of diminished appreciation for your body, not only a
diminished appreciation, but an increasing fear of it as you grow older.
Your body, as I've said before, is the visibility and tangibility of
your individuality. Your individuality is God derived. It's the presence
of God. You must be alert if you want to practice faith, and if you want
to get in that place where God's laws prevail, you are going to have to
be alert when the idea occurs to you to say, I can't depend upon my
body. My body is going to rack and ruin. It is going to die sooner or
later, and it looks like it's going to be sooner. You've got to catch
those thoughts so that you don't turn into that avenue of belief, that
rut of belief. And then run into failure at experiencing the holy
instant or healing. So you've got to pay attention. And when you begin
to doubt your body, when you begin to think that healing is impossible
or it's unreasonable to expect, you've got to say. Within That's
bullshit. I do not accept that. You can say Raj has told me that the
substance of my body is spirit and that my body is the visibility and
tangibility of my divine individuality and therefore it has a divine
function that is eternal. And so I am going to refuse. To engage further
in the thoughts that create great fear in me even though I'm familiar
with them and everyone around me is familiar with them and reinforce
them. You've got to do something different. That's what it's about.
Well, I'll tell you something. Your body, being the visibility and
tangibility of your individuality, it is here with the intent and the
capacity to identify you perfectly. That is its function. Its function
is to identify the presence of God perfectly. Now if you lack faith in
it. To fill its part, your dedication is divided. So, if your knee or
elbow or heart or kidneys, or any other part of your body seems to be
giving you a problem, you better check to see whether your dedication is
divided. What are you bringing to the relationship? Oh, well, it's just
a physical body and you know, in a few years it'll die and my spirit
will go on blah blah blah, and that's a great way to miss out on the
fullness of life now that will always be the fullness of life. If you
practice faith. Your body hasn't been faithless to you. But you have
been Until you see and accept that you're the holy Son or daughter of
God. Whose individuality is identified perfectly by this thing called a
body. You will practice faithlessness against your body. Your fear of
it, your doubt of it. is an attack on it. Now the simple fact is that it
can't change. Your doubt, your faithlessness, practiced cannot stop your
body from being the visibility and tangibility of your divine
individuality. But it can and it does cause your experience of it to be
miserable, and it does seem to cause you to go through an experience
that has been identified as death with accompanying suffering. And
that's not your birthright. As holiness and faith go hand in hand, so
must its faith go everywhere with it. The goal's reality will call forth
and accomplish every miracle needed for its fulfillment. The way things
work. Governs And when you're not fighting the way things work, The way
things work will call forth and accomplish every miracle needed for its
fulfillment. Kidneys functioning Elbow Healed Heart problems gone. Knee
problems gone. The goals reality, not the one you set up, but the goals
set in place by the Father will call forth and accomplish. This is an
absolute statement here. Will call forth and accomplish every miracle
needed for its fulfillment, the fulfillment of what the goals of
reality. The father's will. That's what it means. Nothing too small or
too enormous, too weak or too compelling, but will be gently turned to
its use and purpose. When you don't get in the way of the goal's
reality. It doesn't matter what it is. If it's a tiny thing or a huge
thing. The universe will serve it gladly. As it serves the universe.
This isn't a promise. This is a statement of fact. It's a statement of
fact that governs you constantly. But Do not interfere. How can you
interfere by Slipping back into faithlessness. And it doesn't mean
you're not having faith, you're practicing faithlessness. No, it means
that you've slipped back into faithlessness, which means you've slipped
back into doing your own thinking. If you've slipped back into an
independent rut. That you're familiar with. And you're going to try and
deal with life from that independent place where you refuse. To be
joined, which constitutes faith and places you in that place where God's
laws prevail. The power set in you. In whom the Holy Spirit's goal has
been established is so far beyond your little conception of the infinite
that you have no idea how great the strength that goes with you. And you
can use this in perfect safety. It's that in which God's laws prevail.
It's that in which your sanity returns to you. It's that in which your
vulnerability and your mortality. Disappear Replaced by a new
perspective that doesn't call fear and guilt into play. And undo all
that fear and guilt seemed to cause. Yeah. For all its might, so great
it reaches past the stars and to the universe that lies beyond them,
your little faithlessness can make it useless. If you would use the
faithlessness instead. If you choose to love to think for yourself, to
love to make definitions, to love to come to conclusions, to love to
figure out how to manipulate your brothers and sisters in the world to
make you better and better, if you would use. Privacy If you would use
independence. If you would use autonomy. If you would use private
authority instead. You are to expect to see God's laws prevailing right
here. Right now. With everything you're in relationship with. Including
your body And the holiness of your relationship is what you are destined
to wake up to and what you are called upon to let in. And which you are
to Prepare your mind to experience. By refusing to practice the habits
of faithlessness that keep you bound. God's laws prevailing. Are a here
and now. Event Which You must all stop. Refusing To let in By
Consciously and conscientiously giving your attention elsewhere.
Remember, Waking up is what we could call a translation of perception.
Where the one and only world Which can be looked at from two different
vantage points. I looked at from the only one that's true. The lens of
faith. And the absence of faithlessness. I love you all. Let it be a
good week because it will be whether you let it in or not.

