---
 title: The Father
 audiofn: The_Father
---

## {{page.title}}

Who am I? I am The presence Of the father self-expressing. This is very
important to understand because Many of you know me as Jesus. And To
you, Jesus is a personage. A very significant percentage out of your
past. And the tendency is for you to Lay upon me Or overlay upon what I
am. Your sense of my personhood. Which, whether you know it or not,
Involves a sense of my being and ego, because that is your current
experience of personhood. Now. I did say To my disciples. If you have
seen me, you have seen the Father. And that is what I have just said to
you as the answer to the question, who am I? I was awake. When I made
that statement. And there was no ego present. The full impact of that
did not register with my disciples, and the full impact of that has not
registered with you. But I encourage all of you to allow for The full
meaning of that to register with you. So that you do not involuntarily
and reverently. Conceive of me. As a personage. As a form or a body. But
rather as that conscious awareness of being. Which is claiming no.
Perspective different from the father's recognition of himself
infinitely. And so if you want, you could say that God is addressing
you. And I want to ask who is hearing God. Is it a bunch of persons? Or
is it God recognizing Himself herself? Is this not all God? Knowing
himself herself. And looking like all of you. And Paul and me. Is this
not all? God. It is. Indeed, the question was asked yesterday. When the
suggestion was made that the format change and that perhaps You listen
to. Guidance coming from various other directions. The question was
asked. But don't they realize that this is Jesus? Why would they want to
talk to anyone else when Jesus is here to be heard? And I do want to
make a point clear. When there is a willingness. To yield to the
Father's will when there is a willingness, as Paul said. To have no
preference. When there is a willingness to go into the not knowing place
and be still. And with no preference or urging of any sort, allow The
experience of being conscious. To occur. You find yourself knowing. You
find yourself beginning to experience the clarity of the father's point
of view. That is utterly and absolutely appropriate. To whatever the
given situation is at the moment. And the guidance, if you want to call
it that, that is heard, the intelligent clarity that is experienced. He
is God. Speaking. And God hearing, God speaking, experiences the
integrity of being and everyone feels good. And so I am not more
special. than anyone else's guide. Because any guide that is speaking.
As a result of someone no longer claiming a private separate point of
view. is being the transparency for truth. is being the transparency for
the father's self-expression. Right now, Paul is being the transparency.
And I am being the transparency. And therefore you are not listening to
a personality called Jesus, the Christ. You are listening to God
expressing Himself. Identifiable as Jesus. Egoless Jesus, therefore,
Jesus Christ. Christ Jesus Christ, Paul. And Christ you. Hearing
yourself. Because of your traditional teaching, if you have come from a
Christian background. You have a spontaneous inclination to defer to me
as though I were another person, but an exalted person. But I am not an
exalted person. I am the transparency for The father's will. I am
allowing God to be all there is right where I am, just as Paul is
allowing God to be all there is right where he is, even though to Him it
is experienced as hearing me. You see, the tendency is to take
everything personally, which means to take it in a very limited way.
When John baptized me. And the words were heard. This is my beloved son
in whom I am well pleased. It was interpreted as a benediction. Placed
upon me because I was special. What it did was to disclose The joy And
the love Of the Father, in his experience of himself that looks like you
and me. And so that benediction is yours. You Oh R My beloved sons and
daughters, in whom I am well pleased. Why? Because All I see in you is
me. Because that's all there really is in spite of. Your imaginations to
the contrary. And you are the only one. who hold limited. And
depreciating and demeaning concepts about your fellows. And it's all
extraneous. It's all superfluous. It's all meaningless. Because you
cannot be anything but me. This is me, Paul. That's not Jesus talking.
That's very clearly, and it's the first time that's ever happened, it's
very clearly the Father expressing himself. I just want to let you know
there was a shift that occurred there. Now. And this is Raj. Slash the
father. Paul slash Raj slash the father. You slash Paul slash the
father. Being communion. You see, you must. Not only let loose of your
Definitions of personhood that you apply to yourself, you must let go of
your definitions of personhood that you apply to me. So that you might
begin to be able to appreciate yourself and me, not as body or form, but
as that. Infinite conscious experience of being as consciousness or
mind. That perfectly reflects. The father, because it is the Father
expressed and nothing less. And then you will not appreciate me, quote,
as Jesus, unquote, more than you appreciate. Your guide And you will not
appreciate me, quote, as Jesus more than you appreciate yourselves.
Individually. And you will not appreciate me as Jesus more than you
appreciate each other. Now the second question is why am I here? And the
answer is Because I love you. And because It perfectly expresses the
Father's will. For us To be together. In love, not in judgment. In love.
At this time, in this way. Now there is something else you need to know.
For balance and perspective. And that is That I am with you always.
Isn't that heartwarming? For balance and perspective. Understand that
you are with me always and you are with each other always. You are not
alone. Because God isn't separated into parts. As long as you feel
alone. The infinite unity of being. Or what you might call the
omnipresence of God. Which cannot be gotten rid of in spite of your
belief of being alone. The infinite presence of God. The infinite
presence of you. is experienced as this tiny sense of yourself being
embraced by infinite love. And it is appropriate for you. Indeed, to
reach out to and be willing to be in receipt of that love that embraces
you, because that is the way reintegration occurs. That is the way the
ego boundaries that seem to separate you from your conscious experience
of God's point of view is penetrated. But you need to know something
else. You are the ones for whatever reason who have built the wall
called your ego that causes the separation. And The only way that Thin
film of separation. Can be penetrated is when you make the invitation.
When you express a new will, if you will. That says, I do not. Want to
be separate. I am exhausted from trying to maintain myself. You know
what, it's effortless to be whole. It takes a great deal of effort to be
separate, to be a part of a whole. Because you have to deny the majority
of who you are. Self denial is hard work. Why? Because God is all that
is right there. Appearing to be you. And so you're denying God. Now
let's be very clear. Is that a sin? Punishable, Now, it's just a lot of
hard work. It's wearing and tearing. But the ego like a good challenge.
So, If you don't want to

