---
 title: Thoughts govern experience
 audiofn: Thoughts_govern_experience
---

## {{page.title}}

If someone relieves you of the discovery. That your thoughts absolutely
govern the way you experience reality. You would become disempowered.
And you would not find the occasion for recognizing the authority you
exercise over your particular biased experience of reality, the kingdom
of heaven. And if you Do not find the absolute relationship between your
thoughts and your experience. You You first of all will feel that you
exist. Without any authority. And that therefore, you're like a leaf in
the wind to be blown about hither thither and yon by whatever currents
there are. And you will become depressed. And you will become even more
dysfunctional. And you will become even more afraid. You have to find
out. The absolute relationship between your thoughts and your
experience, the authority you do have. Why? First of all, So that you
can feel your power. Even though it's an ego power. You must discover
your power. So that you can demonstrate to yourself. By a more
Constructive use of your mind. That you can have a more constructive and
harmonious experience. In this way you learn. That you are not subject
To chance or fate or the way the wind is blowing. But you are subject
only to The thoughts, the ideas, the definitions, the meanings that you
are choosing to give everything. Now When you learn this. And how
absolute. The relationship is And that therefore you are never the
innocent victim. of any circumstance or anyone you know. You have
experience. That allows you To look at God. And say If God is infinite
intelligence. And if God If the mind of God Is the cause of existence.
The cause of being. For everything that be. Then I have now the ability.
To acknowledge the possibility. That The thoughts of God. Absolutely
govern creation. And because God is indivisible and undivided. There can
be no conflict in his thought. And therefore there cannot be any
conflict in creation. Therefore, Since I have been learning. that the
call is to turn around to the altar and yield to God. I can do it
without being afraid that God is a whimsical God. And that I will become
subject. To Whatever whimsical thing he might choose for me. That might
place me at a disadvantage. I don't have to be afraid that he's a
wrathful God. I know from my experience of the absolute connection
between my thoughts and my experience. That God Coming from an
indivisible and undivided place. is an absolutely secure. Presence for
me to yield into completely. Conversely, If you do not see The absolute
connection, the absolute authoritative connection between your thoughts
and your experience and you feel vulnerable. To life itself. You will
not be able to bring yourself. To yield willingly. And completely Into
God because your God. will be to you a reflection. Of the way you're
seeing life. And you will see him as whimsical, even. Divided within
himself and sometimes angry at you and sometimes loving of you. And you
will not be able to find the courage. To yield To God Now I've also
pointed out before. That even though you have chosen to look at things
independently. And you have created your own definitions for everything.
You cannot stop being the son or daughter of God that you are. You can't
stop being what God is being right there where you are. You do have
intelligence. And you are able to have thoughts. And your thoughts
ultimately do have power and authority. But you won't find out the truth
of that power and authority. Until you've abandoned it. By yielding to
God and making the connection once again with your source, so that your
thoughts might be derived from the Father. And therein have authority.
But not an independent authority. Your capacity to think, your capacity
to experience ideas. is a divine capacity. But when you are experiencing
that divine capacity from a vantage point you have chosen. In which you
have decided To relinquish your connection to the father's point of view
so that you might have one of your own. That authority. Becomes
distorted. And because you are, as I said before, automatically in a
state of fear when you turn your back to your source. All of your ideas
and all of your thoughts will arise out of fear and will always be an
act of defense. Now, this is not an indictment on you. It's something
that every single one of the sons and daughters of God is capable of.
Because you are capable of it. You are not doing something wrong that is
punishable. So The fact that you're in a state of fear, because you
chose to experiment with looking at the kingdom of heaven independent of
the Father's point of view. It is not something wrong. It's not
something you will be punished for, and you're not actually being
punished for it right now, but you have chosen for a way of being in the
kingdom of heaven. That It is unnatural And so it will be uncomfortable.
So don't feel indicted, don't feel bad, just understand what you're
doing so that you can make an intelligent choice to stop doing it.

