---
 title: Threshold of discovery
 audiofn: Threshold_of_discovery
---

## {{page.title}}

It's interesting. Everyone tends to think of problems as Blocks to your
forward movement. Everyone defines problems as negative. In actuality,
problems are when you have come up to the edge of what you know. And you
say it's a problem because you don't know how to deal with it. Well, you
could look at it this way. Problems are like questions. Questions are
the leading edge of answers, aren't they? Problems are the leading edge
of the unknown. Rather than the end of the known. You see You come and
you ask questions about things you don't know how to deal with. And the
interesting thing is you expect me. To share the answer with you. Well,
if I have the answer for you, then the answer is available to you within
yourself as well. But you don't expect it to be there because you are
conditioned to experience this bind that you are calling a problem. You
are interpreting it to be something that is against you. Rather than a
leading edge you're up against. You see the difference. You see the
boundary of the known like it's a wall. And it's in your way when it's
really the threshold of discovery. It's the threshold of discovering
something new, a new knowing. Again, it's like enlarging the borders of
your tent. So if you were to begin to recognize that your problems are
simply the threshold of the unknown, which means therefore that You must
call curiosity into play rather than distress. Then you will begin to
find yourself. Discovering The answer If I ask you a question, You don't
say Oh, why do you have to give me that problem? You answer the
question. If you don't know what the answer is, you research it. And
find it and come back with it. You know there's an answer. It's not a
dead end that a question has been asked. So Problems are where you have
come up against the edge of what you know. And what it's calling for is
curiosity. To know what is beyond what you know and a willingness to let
in the answer. Because the territory is there. You know, the world isn't
flat with an edge. When you get up to an edge, there's more territory.


