---
 title: Tinkling brass
 audiofn: Tinkling_brass
---

## {{page.title}}

It may be wonderful to talk about spiritual concepts and how things work
spiritually. But none of that means a hill of beans because until it
comes down to the place where you are relating to your brother and
sister here and now in the ugliness and beauty of Unclear thinking that
goes on and you persist in witnessing for that which is true about your
brother and sister. Until you do that. All this spiritual talk is
tinkling brass, and there's nothing to bring it to life. Here and now.
Every single one of you is worth having someone stand and persistently,
consistently witness for the very best in you, because the very best in
you is the only thing that's really here. And all the worst of yourself
that you think exists here is nothing but your imagination and isn't
real. But as long as you are convicted by it, as long as you are
convicting yourself to those poor concepts, you will suffer, and it's
needless. But you need someone to tell you it's needless, so you can
realize, oh, there is a different way to see this, and you know what,
you can stand on the behalf of your brother and sister without ever
using one spiritual word. And until you get that, you're going to get
hung up on your spiritual words, and you will lose the meaning. Hugs
give hugs a hand on a shoulder. A willingness to stand unmoving and
being there for them wordlessly, just being an ear that is willing to
listen. This is where the transformation occurs. This is where love is
extended and experienced. This is where, by virtue of your willingness
to witness for your brother and sister. demonstrates in the world. That
they're not alone. That they're worthy That they don't have to be afraid
to be in the spot they're in. That someone cares. And all of this
Without a word being spoken. All of these words in the course in the
Bible. All of these words mean nothing if they aren't going to be
translated into the human experience.


