---
 title: Totality of you
 audiofn: Totality_of_you
---

## {{page.title}}

You in your totality. are always totally present. Whether you're
ignoring part of yourself or not. And it's important to understand this
so that you or your ego does not project a picture in front of you. Of a
great distance to go full of difficulty before you can attain
enlightenment. Enlightenment isn't knowledge that you will acquire.
Enlightenment is you being in your right mind. It is you not being
unconscious of any aspect of your infinite self. An infinite self that
is present. And is what you are experiencing through squinted eyes and
therefore through a partial perception of what you are at this very
moment in your totality. I have nothing that does not come from God, and
I would say you have nothing that does not come from God. Although you
seem to have extra frills that you have added to yourself imaginatively
through the use of imagination. The difference between us now is that I
have nothing else. This leaves me in a state which is only potential in
you. And I will say it's potential and actual at the same time. It's
only potential in you at the moment. Because you are conscientiously
engaged in interposing definitions of everything which you prefer to
what God is actually being there. Because you get an ego hit from being
apparently and deludedly capable of having a private creation of your
own. The hit you get from this very real seeming fantasy that you can
create something is what addicts you to your attachment to illusion
rather than desiring to know what is real. What I want you to know is
that the shift from potential to actual. It is a simple shift
facilitated by a curiosity to experience the reality of everything
you're experiencing. And so you will find me harping on the simplicity
of awakening, the simplicity of shifting from potential to actual.

