---
 title: Touching integrity
 audiofn: Touching_integrity
---

## {{page.title}}

It's important to realize the degree to which you are unconsciously
governed by. mutually agreed upon definitions. And it's important for
you to realize how much your sense of your own integrity is derived from
those mutually agreed upon definitions, even though you think that your
integrity is being felt by you because it is something absolute that has
nothing to do with anyone else. When this happens, you find that your
sense of integrity does have something to do. With everyone else. As
long as they're in agreement with your having integrity, you feel good,
and if the majority I think you lack integrity. Your feeling of inner
stability and strength suffers, and you're even willing to say, well,
maybe. They're all right. They can't all be wrong. Therefore, maybe I
need to take another look. And see where I have fallen short, you see.
As long as your experience of your integrity is being derived. From
others agreements about your having integrity. You are not experiencing
your integrity. Because you do have integrity that is derived from the
source of your being, which isn't everyone else's current ego perception
of you. And part of waking up. is getting in touch with that integrity
and I won't say that part of your getting in touch with that integrity
is involved in Turning around to the altar, all of you getting in touch
with your experience of your integrity has to do with turning again
within to the altar within you. Where the flame of your essential being.
is burning because God has lit it and keeps it lit at every moment. And
that's why Your integrity is unchangeable and that's where you will find
it not changing, and that's where you will find yourself able to feel it
without it being. Blown about, disturbed. By everyone else's opinions,
thoughts, comments, gossip to the contrary, you see. The hard part of
awakening and the hard part of facing the truth is In realizing That
You're getting your sense of your well-being from the wrong places. But
if you don't find out that you're getting it from the wrong places, you
We'll go along blindly. And unconscious. Of the integrity of your being
that's unwavering and that is constantly available to you to experience,
you see. None of you are here to please anyone else. You could say
you're here to please God, but It's more than that. You're here to
glorify God. You're here to Represent God. Because that's your function.
You don't have a function to represent yourself. Because you don't have
a self that isn't God derived. And as long as you think you do, You will
constantly be in a process of negotiating agreed upon definitions or new
agreed upon definitions with all of the other egos around you. Who are
tending to their own integrity that is self-derived rather than God
derived. Again, for clarity, self-derived. Integrity is other derived
integrity. Understand that clearly. Because without acknowledged
agreement of everyone else as to your integrity, you will find yourself
at a loss without any sense of integrity, and you will scramble
mightily. To change the minds of the others who Express that you lack
integrity. Or If you don't choose to change their mind, you will choose
to acquiesce to them. Just for peace, just for the sake of not being in
the middle of the turmoil. And there's still no integrity there. It's
misery. Self-derived integrity is really other derived integrity, and
you're the puppet. Of the mutual agreement. Of the majority And you're
lucky if the majority thinks well of you. At least Humanly speaking,
you're lucky if the majority agree with you. You're still up shit creek
if the majority agree with you and that's why you feel your integrity,
because you're not in touch with the substance and divinity of your
being that's unvarying and unyielding.

