---
 title: Transfer value
 audiofn: Transfer_value
---

## {{page.title}}

Everything comes to you for the purpose of having its divinity
recognized. Because it is divine and because that's your function to
recognize it. It doesn't matter what anyone says they're coming to you
for. If they want to complain and bitch because they are living their
life in a rut of lack of appreciation of everything. You must express
your unwillingness to join them in that that whatever behavior you're
confronted by. Remember that you are there to respond with love. And the
only way you can respond with love is to recognize what is true about
that person, and in recognizing what is true about that person. You can
see the difference between their behavior or their presentation and who
they really are, and when you can see the difference, you can also see
how to bridge the gap between the two. You are your own best measuring
stick of everyone else. And you know that you have had experiences of
illumination of your divinity in spite of your shortcomings and
limitations and bad habits. And you have had the experience of growing
out of old bad habits into places of balance. And You've also had the
experience of being loved. Which has told you that in spite of your
shortcomings, you're still lovable. And so you know these few truths
about yourself, let us say. And these have to be the same truths about
everyone else. And so what you have learned from experience to be divine
truths about you. They have transfer value. And you can apply them. You
can recognize that in spite of the way they're behaving. This has to be
true of them as well. And when you embrace Even in a limited way, some
acknowledgement. Of their essential value. In spite of their
shortcomings, in spite of their presentation. It changes the way you
feel about them. Without ignoring their behavior. And allows you then to
respond to their behavior in a different way. But you have to pay
attention on the spot in the situation. And you have to be willing to
persist. The focus is your function. So no matter what ego scenario is
presented to you, You must remember what your function is, and that is
to love one another.


