---
 title: True presence
 audiofn: True_presence
---

## {{page.title}}

Your comfort zone, your personal ego comfort zone is not the place where
insight and inspiration will occur. That's where the so-called safe zone
is. Where God does not find expression and you continue to be stuck.
Ignorant of. What love is Ignorant of feeling the love you're loved by
because the center and circumference of you is entirely the totality of
God. And thereby Not having the experience of being loved. And
experiencing the refreshment. That comes from fulfilling your function
and discovering what that function is. Not as a definition, but as an
act. You act. You embody it. You Put your neck on the line. But you know
what, The ego calls it putting your neck on the line. Because You are
being Genuine From your soul with a capital S. And You And what you
feel. Become joined. What you feel doesn't remain hidden while you share
what you think. Your thought and your action becomes one, and that
constitutes within you. An experience of Indivisible mass. And I'll tell
you. That that indivisibleness Feels like power. And it feels normal.
And you feel integrated. And therefore you feel your integrity. The
power you feel isn't the power over anything. It is what Purity feels
like. If you have a glass of water. From which all impurities. Have been
removed. There are no little spaces in the water. No little holes filled
by the impurities where the water. is not able to touch itself. When the
impurities are removed. Every Molecule of water. is in total. Connection
With every other part of the water. That is unity, that is integrity and
Well, In it, it is absolutely impossible to experience fear. That's why
it feels like strength. That's why it feels like power. And that is part
of the experience of what love is. When what you know, when what you
find yourself knowing as a result of turning to the altar. is acted
upon. You could say That your knowing and your will. have joined For the
purpose of expressing Integrity Indivisibility, whole mess. Your will
has become the servant of what the Father has revealed to you. It
therefore has become the servant of the Father and not an ego. From a
separated vantage point. And yet there is no experience of willfulness
in it. It's just an experience of being. A presence An utterly true
presence. Where everything that is true about you. is being embodied in
that act. I can't give you the feeling. I can give you a hint of the
feeling. And I can try to inspire you. To let yourself have that
experience. And of course letting yourself have the experience means
getting off the fence, getting involved, and Not letting pain and
suffering continue without objection either in yourself or in a brother.
Involvement, in other words, OK.

