---
 title: True prayer
 audiofn: True_prayer
---

## {{page.title}}

True prayer is when you abandon What you think you want. What you think
you need when you abandon the thoughts you have about your wants and
needs. And go within and turn toward the altar. To what? Inquire of God.
What the truth is. And then listen. Without interjecting anything in the
process. Listen, If it's the Father's good pleasure to give you the
kingdom, which means Withhold nothing from you, then you can count on it
that any genuine inquiry. You extend to God will be answered. The fact
is that the answer is always being given. But by virtue of bringing your
attention to the point of listening. For the answer opens your mind to
the receipt of the answer. Now, When you get the answer, when
clarification occurs. You can say, oh wow. This is a wonderful bit of
information. Having received the answer doesn't automatically mean that
you embrace the answer and let it change you. So ultimately true prayer
is saying yes to God. It's not asking for something. It's not asking God
to change the situation or do something for you. It's to listen
Unconditionally undefendedly. Within in the quietness of your being. In
other words, turning toward the altar. And desiring to know the truth.
Listening Standing in receipt of it. And then saying yes, in other
words, agreeing. Because when you make agreement you make commitment. So
prayer is saying yes to God. What I want to have be unmistakable to
every single one of you is That when you say yes to God, Having
inquired, having listened, and having heard. You abandon independence.
And you join with God. And as I've said before, one with God is a
majority. When there is only one will finding expression. In your
partnership with God and it's God's will. There is power. You become an
agent for change. It's not a personal private power. But it's the power
of God being. Unequivocally Himself in all of his integrity. That Finds
no resistance. To its embodiment in you. And so it becomes embodied.
It's spontaneous, it's automatic. It's actual. Do not under any
circumstances. Think that realization of the truth is something that
will only happen in your mind. When it happens in your mind and your
mind is not. Imbued with a sense of personal private independent
authority. The authority of God is what is embodied. And therefore God
is not blocked from expression. I would encourage all of you. At least
once a day. To sit down To love your world. To want to know the truth
about it. So that you might say yes to God. And have the embodiment of
his will objectively manifested in the world. Because when you bring
your undivided willingness to him, That is what happens. His will
becomes embodied and healing occurs. What is healing? Healing is the
revealing of God's intent in His creation, where it had been escaping
your attention because you had given your own definitions to it. So when
the ego suggests to you, what can you do? You're just one among
billions. Now you know That you have the capacity. To be an agent for
change. By saying yes to God. What happens when you turn toward the
altar? You have the experience of knowing the truth. And you have the
experience of the truth making you free. Ye shall know the truth and the
truth shall make you free.

