---
 title: Turn around again
 audiofn: Turn_around_again
---

## {{page.title}}

There are many ways the ego. Can come in In the face of greater clarity
and a greater willingness to love. To show you just how unworthy those
who you liked before. are Of The pure love that you now have to give. So
you must be very careful. That because of your increased capacity to be
the presence of love because you opened up to it. Does not become
sidetracked. By judgments resulting from seeing that you're. buddies,
your friends, your Kindred spirits. are more ignorant than you thought
they were. Hey, If they're more ignorant than you thought they were and
you see that they're really committed to their ignorances. My God. What
must this mean about the whole world? The whole world must be in a
bigger mess than I thought. And It's going to be impossible. To be an
agent for change. That's what the ego does. When you are in filled with
the willingness to be the presence of love more fully. And so you find
yourself faced with The requirement To examine your commitment to be the
presence of love. To find out if this is now the new level. Of what it
will take to cause you to abandon being the presence of love. Because
it's either hopeless or it's not worth it or they're not worth it. You
see, Greater clarity. And the willingness to be The fuller presence of
love. Will I cover to you. Just how much love is needed. And the
temptation will be to turn your back on the altar. And Be bothered,
disgusted. Depressed By how great the ignorance is. And then once again
All by yourself unconnected from your source. Feel like. Giving up And
forgetting that all you have to do. I turn around again. And make
commitment. To the light In the middle of the altar. Which ultimately
you're going to find out is you yourself.

