---
 title: Undercurrent calling
 audiofn: Undercurrent_calling
---

## {{page.title}}

Even when you think you're not afraid. You are If your back is turned
toward the altar. If you have said in so many words to the Father, I
would rather look at this by myself and determine what it is I am
looking at. Then you have Engaged in What has been called the fall. You
have separated yourself from the Father. To have a point of view of your
own. And the moment that intention is acted upon. And you do engage in
having an independent viewpoint. You immediately feel. The dissonance of
having divided yourself off. From The wholeness of yourself. And you get
feedback. It's called your capital S sanity. Your sanity says to you,
you're in dangerous territory. You're in dangerous territory. Or it says
to you, You are choosing to look at things in an unnatural way. It is
not wise to act unnaturally. And this warning, this ever present.
Awareness that you have stepped out of. What is natural to you. And that
it therefore constitutes Less than sanity. You feel as an undercurrent
of uneasiness, and it should feel uneasy to you. If it felt totally
comfortable to you, it would mean that you could actually become insane.
So From that point on, once you are looking at everything. From an
independent vantage point. There is this undercurrent of uneasiness. And
it's a brand new experience. It's not natural. And the uneasy
experience, the uneasy energy that you feel rather than reminding you.
To return to what is normal to you. can begin to seem to you to be
something to overcome. And you can begin to think that existence is a
matter of successfully overcoming this feeling which you know isn't
natural to you. And so you engage in attacking the feeling. You engage
in trying to overcome the feeling. Rather than recognizing that it is a
signal to go back home. Or that it is an ever present signal that you
are not at home and that it is essential for you to be careful not to be
sucked into. Any distraction from returning home. In other words, That
you must be careful not to forget what the Undercurrent is calling for
and forget to go home. So Everything that follows. That act of
independence. I experienced as fear. And a feeling of vulnerability. So
until you all awaken. Until you all come home again. Please understand
that every moment of your existence. is imbued with fear. When you are
feeling comfortable, part of the comfort comes from having established
agreed upon definitions with everybody that you're associating with, and
as a result of that, you feel able. To relax And not be on the defense.
But that isn't because fear is absent. It's because you have found a
substitute for fear. Mutually agreed upon definitions that all of you
are willing to abide by and thereby not rock each other's boats, you
see, but that's not peace really and that's not. An experience of the
absence of fear. And it's important for you to understand that.

