---
 title: Undo the dream
 audiofn: Undo_the_dream
---

## {{page.title}}

When you're engaged in your function of being the salvation of the
world, you are glorifying God. And you could say that in glorifying God
you are calling God forth. In whatever it is you're experiencing.
Instead of muddling along in your mutually agreed upon definitions of
what that thing is. You're here to undo the dream. It is not your
function to glide along in the middle of the dream untouched by the
dream. You're here to undo the dream. You're here to bless each other
all day long every day. By desiring to glorify God right there. In each
other You want to break the habit of thoughtlessly. Moving down a
well-worn path. of ignorance and Confirming it Further Making the rut
deeper. You're not here to be in passive bliss while illusion goes on
unchanged and unchallenged. You're here to be an agent for change.
Because it is your function to be glorifying God in everything you see.
And it just so happens that glorifying God in everything you see.
Blesses And heels. And puts the weight on the right side, the side of
truth. And reminds you to listen more deeply and to desire when you look
at this other one. To see the fullness of God right there. Because you
don't want to labor. Under an illusion And you don't want them to labor
under an illusion. You are the light of the world. If the light is what
you want to see. And if the light is what you insist upon, Letting in
Right where darkness and Obscureness Seems to prevail. Another reason
you do it is because it's the way for you to wake up. You, if you want
to know the truth about yourself. Need to seek the truth about your
brother. You persist until whatever resistance you have. is melted And
the direct experience of truth. Can flood you And, and for lack of
better words, convince you. So that you utterly know the truth.

