---
 title: Unlearning
 audiofn: Unlearning
---

## {{page.title}}

You know what? All of you have very specific problems. All of you have
very pertinent problems that you deal with in your life. They are
pertinent because they are specific to the undoing of what keeps you
asleep. They are pertinent to the undoing of The blocks that keep you
from waking up. So everything that you have experienced has been
absolutely essential. None of the problems any of you have. are
irrelevant to you. So, you grew up differently from someone else and had
different experiences, but none of the experiences you had were
irrelevant to your waking up. So there is no cause for grief or sorrow
for loss. All you are feeling that you lost is what somebody else
apparently had, but you know what, if you were walking in their shoes.
They'd say they'd rather have your problem because that would have been
easy for them to deal with. The point is that none of them were
irrelevant. So value them, and you will find it easier to value them if
you aren't distracted by the idea that they were irrelevant and
therefore a total waste of time. Waking up, growing is a matter of
unlearning things that get in the way of your being fully realized. And
all you've been engaged in is unlearning. And it may have been
strenuous, and other unlearning processes may be less strenuous, but the
point is that none of them were irrelevant to your waking up. Now Don't
be distracted from the joy of The opening that is occurring. The opening
that that you are experiencing couldn't be happening if the essential
unlearnings hadn't occurred. So you've been engaged the whole time in
Unlearning And it's all been essential and it's all therefore been
utterly valuable. And it doesn't matter how long it took. So, you can
dare to rejoice in what is happening now. And then Uh, you'll be better
prepared for the next limit you come up against, uh, where there's more
unlearning to do, but rejoice in where you are because it will help make
the next unlearning. are graceful.

