---
 title: Valuing wholesomeness
 audiofn: Valuing_wholesomeness
---

## {{page.title}}

Your body, for lack of better words, is designed to digest. Vegetables I
have indicated that you need not worry if you are eating fish or
poultry. Um But your body is not, is not geared toward the digestion of
meat. So my point has been To do what works well. Not to promote. A
particular form of diet. There really is a need. For those who are not
in charge, I mean by that. The regular citizenry of your country and
indeed of other countries as well, uh, to begin to lift its voice and
make its requirement heard that Foodstuffs need to be Need fooling
around and altering their structure needs to stop. And That for lack of
better words, any alteration that occurs should be within the structures
of nature rather than science. A need for the valuing of wholesomeness.
In human relationships, in family relationships, in relationship to the
food you are eating. These need to take precedence over. Technology and
striving for Utterly new things that cause nature to be overridden and
ignored. Because I will tell you that. Nature will not be overridden.
And if awakening, Didn't occur before nature spoke up, there would be
Well, the best way I can put it is that arrogant mankind would be put in
its place. And Humility would once again emerge. And and honor and
respect for The earth Honor and respect for each other. would once again
take precedence. So Don't be afraid to lift your voice. Don't be afraid
to let your market know that you do not want. Certain kinds of foods.
You do not want irradiated foods. You do not want. Altered Foods, etc.
Because money is the bottom line. And if you say you're not going to
spend your money here, but you are going to spend it there. That's where
the effort will be put. But let the motive for what you say. Be one of
honoring. Nature

