---
 title: Walking through the wall of fear
 audiofn: Walking_through_the_wall_of_fear
---

## {{page.title}}

When fear enters the picture, it is necessary for you. To make a
conscious choice. As to whether to listen to the voice for fear. Or to
the voice for truth. When fear Runs rampant through you. And every fiber
of your body. Hide What it means is hide from the truth that would be
the answer. It means Hide In And feel the fear and Send out messengers
here. To find confirmation of the justification for fear. A different
choice has to be made. Even though it isn't what one feels. Naturally
and spontaneously like doing. One has to choose for love. One has to
choose for truth. And one has to choose for extending it. Right in the
face. Of the fear Not against the fear. But instead of the fear, You
can't battle fear. All you can ever do. I have another point. To give
your attention to And persist in giving your attention there. The voice
for truth. The God within you The Holy Spirit Your capacity to be the
presence of love. And persist in the face of fear. Whether the
circumstances that have occasioned the fear or that seem to justify the
fear have changed or not. Don't think that because you are consciously
engaged. In an apparent process of awakening. Which is an endeavor. That
is to your credit. is going to be easy. Do not misunderstand. I am not
saying it is going to be or it has to be hard. But the very practical
fact is That you are used to being governed by your ego and its
perceptions. And you have valued them. You have built a security system.
Based on those. Ego perceptions. And you have great commitment to
ensuring your safety. Through the maintenance of that security system.
And in your process of awakening, that security system will be
dismantled. And you will dismantle it piece by piece. P E A C E P E A C
E. Little by little, you will increase your peace by dismantling another
PIECE of your defense system, your defense mechanism, which is what the
ego is. And as you do it, you will find moments where you are
dismantling a part of your defense system. That you have felt was
particularly essential to Your safety and fear will rear its head. Not
for the first time. But for the millionth time, And it's reared its head
so many times. That you're very familiar with every aspect of and every
detail of that fear and every justification for it. So that when it
rears its head, It's easy to feel the fear fully. Even though the
dismantling you have engaged in has actually weakened it. And You will
have to continue with the dismantling. In spite of the fear. Because you
know. That in the dismantling of the defense system, You will feel. Your
inviolability. Your innocence and your absolute safety that requires no
defense system. And because there is somewhere in you. That you know
That you are absolutely and utterly safe no matter what. And therefore,
It is becoming more and more apparent to you. That what is called for
when fear raises its head. is to Not energize it. By giving your
attention to it and being distracted from the dismantling of The defense
system. That is what I mean. When I say that it isn't easy. But you must
understand. That just because it isn't easy doesn't mean what you're
doing is wrong. It doesn't mean that You must be dismantling it. Wrong.
It doesn't mean that you must not really be. Engaged in awakening else.
Everything would be smooth and hunky dory. If you understand this, you
will be able to face the suggestion. That fear is justified. And that
there is reason. To disengage from Dismantling The defense system. And
you will persist. Whether it's comfortable or not. Go into this with
your eyes wide open. I'm disillusioning you now. I am removing illusions
that you might carry with you. In this Apparent process of awakening of
coming back into your right mind. Onward Christian soldiers. Well,
that's not what I'm talking about. We're not doing battle with the ego.
You're learning to recognize. What it actually takes. to become free of.
An illegitimate imposition upon you. That has kept you from experiencing
your birthright. And that illegitimate imposition upon you is a defense
mechanism, a defense system. A barrier, a wall. Encircling you That
protects you against experiencing God actually. The wall isn't real. And
it's not your birthright. To be imprisoned inside the wall that
encircles you. So persist When the rules that say don't tear down that
wall. Try to cause you. To stop energizing and validating the wall. and
distract you from Persisting in your intent. To move through it. And the
only way to move through it without finding it resisting you. is by
disregarding it. And persisting In wanting to have The experience of
truth. In which the illusion of a wall. Not only can't stand. But must
be shown to be nonexistent so that you may. Fall through it.
Effortlessly. And you will find that when you insist upon Getting past
the wall of immobilizing fear that gets hold of you from time to time.
You will have help. You will have support. You will have inner
clarifications available to help you recognize what you don't need to.
Be responsive to. So that you don't make it more difficult for yourself.
By energizing The wall more Through harboring the fear. Giving it a
place of safety in you to reside. By feeling it in all the different
ways it's possible to feel it. You see. Fear is not natural to your
mind. Fear is not natural to your mind. Therefore, To whatever degree
you honor fear. You are behaving in an extremely abnormal way. You're
using your mind in a totally abnormal way. You've got to make the choice
not to use your mind that way. And choose not to use your mind in that
way. With persistence. Until The invitation to fear. has subsided in
you. And that which is not natural to your mind. Seems no longer to be
presenting itself as part of your mind. Once It is no longer presenting
itself as part of your mind. Your mind is available. To fully represent
God. To fully represent your clarity and your peace. To fully represent
your capacity. To be appropriate. In every moment And to be an agent for
change. To shift Into giving into extending. Which the wall of fear
absolutely prohibited you from. Being and doing. And the world is
blessed. By your willingness to bless it. And you are blessed. By your
willingness to bless the world. Instead of protecting yourself against
the world. I love you all.

