---
 title: We feel your absence
 audiofn: We_feel_your_absence
---

## {{page.title}}

I have used the word sad. I have indicated that those of us who are
awake. are sad at not being in full communion with all of you. And yet
you might say that's inconsistent. For one who is Supposedly awake. If
you have a 100 watt light bulb. And you have a dimmer switch and you
have it turned down. So that only 50 wants. is being used. The light is
less full. It is dimmer. And Because the light was created. To function
at 100 watts. At full illumination. When its full potential isn't being
used. Something is missing. And there's an experience of the something
that's missing. And so when When so many are caught in A fantasy dream.
And are blocking themselves from full communion. With all of us who are
awake. The difference between fullness And the degree of communion that
exists now is felt. It feels like something, and It is clear. To those
of us who are awake, that the feeling represents something not natural.
And so there is an involuntary and spontaneous desire. To help dissolve,
to get rid of this inequity, this imbalance. So that the feeling of
wholeness. Which is our birthright, ours, those of us who are awake and
yours. It is our birthright. To be all together experiencing that
fullness and wholeness. And so To say that God is lonely or for me to
say that we are sad. It's simply a means of conveying. That We can feel
your absence. We can feel your unconsciousness of us. And so it is as
though there is a hole. Even though you are totally available to us, if
you're not totally available, even though we are totally available to
you. Until you are totally available to us and experiencing yourselves
and us fully. The experience of the meaning of the word natural. is
missing. You see? And so We long To be with you fully. As your essential
being longs to be with us fully.

