---
 title: Weakening the bubble
 audiofn: Weakening_the_bubble
---

## {{page.title}}

There aren't different kinds of life. There isn't uh uh a, a false life
that you are living here that is different from a real life that I am
living from. The universalist perspective, let us say, if you are alive
at this very instant, which you are. Whether you are experiencing it in
a highly limited fashion or not, it is the life divine. It is the only
life there is. And if you cannot start where you are in respecting the
life you are experiencing as you are experiencing it, you will not be
capable of having or experiencing an expansion of your Of your
experience of life with a capital L. You will not be able to experience
transformation. Of it You have to start. Right where you are, right in
your limited perception at this moment. Because it is Whatever small
part of the life divine that you are experiencing. It is not an illusory
life. You have to start where you are. I've, I've said before that none
of you are an ego, even though your, your ego perceptions. tend to uh
color. And darken and limit. Your innate capacity to see everything with
the mind of God. And so your mind right now is the mind of God. It is
the ultimate mind, but it's with shutters that have closed down so that
your perception of things is very limited. And when you think that your
limited perception of things is real, you are experiencing delusion, and
your perception of things can only be described as illusory. I've
pointed out that uh with an illustration of a bubble, that, that of you
which is circumscribed inside the bubble is the same you that extends
infinitely outside of the bubble. And that what has to be abandoned or
weakened until it pops is this flimsy. Nebulous Soapy Bubble The you
that is experiencing yourself as tiny inside the bubble. Is the selfsame
you that extends infinitely outside of it. And so you have to start
right now, not saying I'm an ego. And therefore, who I think I am
doesn't even exist. You have to start with a basic appreciation for
yourself and acknowledgement of fundamental integrity that you cannot
possibly have lost even though you are experiencing it in a limited
fashion. And the only way you can weaken the bubble is to begin to be
inside the bubble with the attitude that is appropriate to and natural
to you in your infiniteness.

