---
 title: Weight Is Not the Issue
 audiofn: Weight_Is_Not_the_Issue
---

## {{page.title}}

"Don't be concerned about fluctuations. They are simply The visibility
and tangibility of You're letting go of control and yielding into a more
fundamental order. Which isn't completed yet. This Yielding has not been
fully realized yet. It is quote in process, unquote. It is as though you
are watching healing in slow motion. And so I encourage you to persist
In listening for what is appropriate. I especially encourage you not to
engage in any judgments about what it looks like is happening because
You don't have enough data to come to an intelligent conclusion. Because
a movement that is occurring beyond the scope of your data is happening.
And so I encourage you to trust that a process is occurring here. And
everything you have been experiencing is essential. And the
reconfiguration will involve more symmetry than you presently see. Just
don't rush God. It isn't that God is really Moving slowly. If you're
yielding. That is happening in a gradual manner. But you are also
yielding as fast as you are able. And so things are not out of order.
And also In saying to yourself, I will let this reconfiguration happen
in God's time. will mean that you are letting go of whatever degree of
control you think you're able to authorize to Speed things up. Yielding
really means yielding. And so, If you will say thy will be done. The
yielding will occur more rapidly because that is an act of yielding. If
you are trying to help it along. You are still in there being an
authoritative presence or attempting to be. And The reconfiguration will
only be the result of an absence of personal expressed authority. So I
can't tell you how to do it better. Because you doing it is what's
disappearing from the picture. So you must say thy will be done, not
mine. And I will continue to pay attention to what is appropriate
without guilt. And now I'm going to add, without impatience. Infinite
patience brings immediate results. I am telling you to be fully present
without impatience. And without bringing control into play. And Until
you're awake, everyone is in process. But if you don't become
preoccupied with the end of the process, You will be able to be where.
The process is happening, if I may put it that way. Which is always in
the moment you're in. And that's the place to value. The moment you're
in is where the little gap is that you can slip through. The moment
you're in is the moment about which you will have realization. It is the
moment about which you will say, Oh, I see. God is your sanity. God is
your right mind. But Don't talk about him as though he's somewhere else.
He is your right mind. He is your sanity. How many Things do you have in
your life? that you use as goads. To your progress or That you use to
keep yourselves in line, unquote. One who feels he or she is From the
get-go, guilty. Guilty from the get-go. finds it valuable to have things
about himself or herself that can be identified as obvious flaws
standing in need of correction. So that they can use that. To motivate
themselves. The thing is That it's part of its use is to remind you that
you are not. That you're not fully respectable, that you are not.
standing there full of integrity. It is a way of putting yourself down,
in other words, even though it is used to try to motivate the energy
that it takes to wake up or to improve yourself. What I am saying to you
is that you have been fooled into using your body weight. As though it
were a problem unquote that does not speak well of you. In other words,
it might even say that there is something self-destructive in each of
you. That needs to be Attended to And the peace of mind. And the joy
that needs to be present. So that you might be ever more curious about
the presence of God in your life. Takes the back seat. I'll dare to be
joyfully engaged in being curious about what's really going on once I
get this burr out of my ass. Called. Overweight and what it really does
mean in my life. You are letting The idea that it could be better.
Relative to your bodies. That you are missing the fact that joy. is
justified in this moment. And that if you let go of This thing that's
always keeping you unsettled, that says it could be better if you would
let go of that. The wonder of what's going on in your lives might
register with you and the joy you would experience. would constitute The
ability to further yield up willfulness on your part. And watch.
Reconfiguration. Take place. Why Has this been bothering you for years?
For years? I mean, Has it done any good? Maybe God is sufficient to the
moment you're in. With things exactly as they are or appear to be to you
at the moment, maybe God is sufficient unto all of these circumstances.
And if you weren't using your weight or some other thing as a means of
motivating you. When at the same time, it drags you down. You might
discover the sufficiency of God in the moment to reveal yourselves to
you as who you really are. With perfect symmetry, but the symmetry can't
be the point. It's just, it's just the results. Did you say? You don't
have a long list of things that have been bothering you. That you
actually activate. You see, The problem is not your weight. The problem
is that your egos are using it as a means of keeping you off balance.
That's the only part I'm talking about, because that's the problem, not
the weight. The issue is not to be hooked by the ego. Into Using some
judgment against your body as a means of keeping yourself off balance
and feeling like it could be better. You mean this is as good as it
gets? It gets no better. Then the kingdom of heaven. That is what's
happening at this instant. The ultimate is happening. But You won't see
the ultimate until you abandon. The attempt To find things wrong. In
order to create the motivation. To see how good things are. This has
nothing to do with relationships with men. It has nothing to do with
whether there's something in you. That doesn't want relationships with
men. It has nothing to do with Hormones. It has to do With the fact that
you have allowed the ego. To pick this issue. And say You could be doing
better. This could be better. And of course, what does that mean? It
means that the fact that it's not better is because you're falling short
in some area. There's something wrong with you. Right here As I see you,
The presence that you are is glorious. It doesn't get any better than
this. But as long as you let the ego distract you. With body issues. You
won't be curious to see. What's here that doesn't get any better. And
you'll keep yourselves in a state of misery. When the ego suggests to
you that your Weight problem. I An indicator. Of your Neglect Of your
Not being away. That there is something wrong with you. And that
concern. is an appropriate thing for you to engage. Tell it, I said, to
shut up. Now, There you go. Well. So I'm just gonna be fat? No! That
isn't the issue. It's whether you're listening to the ego or not. And if
you're not, Then either you're going to be bored with the peace you're
experiencing. Or you're going to experience peace that has made room for
curiosity. To see what's really true right here, not how much is wrong
right here. I just encourage you not to be watching your body for the
evidence of it. I want you to watch what happens in your mind. I want
you to watch how You discover Just How the ego introduces. Suggestions
to you. That cause you to become distracted by this problem you have
that says something about your lack of integrity so that you can say,
oh. Get the behind me. Shut up. I choose To stay in that place where I'm
not in turmoil. Where I am feeling good and I have the Perspicacity That
it takes To look for my joy. No. It's not OK for you not to look in the
mirror. You need to look in the mirror and not judge. Because what you
see doesn't matter. What I mean by that is What you see isn't the issue.
It's what you're seeing with. And are you looking through the lens of
the ego? Or are you Being curious to see what the father is seeing
there. There just is no justification for Judgment? What do you think
the Father sees when you're standing there in all your glorious nudity
in front of the mirror? This is my beloved daughter. In whom I am well
pleased. Period Bottom line. Let this percolate. Like I said, As a
result of the healing team working with you. You can look forward to
having little light bulbs going on. So that it's not happening. In a
manner that you're unaware of. And you can say, oh my. Shut up. And go
on with your stuff.

