---
 title: What do you treasure
 audiofn: What_do_you_treasure
---

## {{page.title}}

The value of the coal. And what is the value of the goal? That would
cause you to defend the truth rather than error. The goal has to be
simple. It has to be love. And if your goal is to love, Then it is truth
that you will naturally want to defend. Because error is the uh
Disturbing element. That undermines the experience of love. If it is
defended and committed to. Do you treasure harmony? Do you treasure
friendship? Or do you treasure not being wrong? Or do you treasure being
right? Do you treasure that which unifies or that which Separates and It
seems to provide the opportunity for Being the winner of one upmanship.
You see, And everyone defends his treasure and will do so automatically.
In other words, You don't have to will to do it. If you treasure
something, you automatically. Defend it. It's wonderful. Because the
moment you value love, the moment you value truth. You will
automatically defend it. You will spontaneously stand. On its behalf.
Involuntarily It's not a struggle. You might say the struggle comes in
changing what you're treasuring. You always treasure something for what
it's going to do for you. So, you know what? I would like you to take
time to ask yourself. What love can do for you. Why would you treasure
love? You might be surprised that you don't have a large number of
responses to the question. But it's worth exploring. It's worth
contemplating. What do you want love to do for you? And then take a look
at whether or not love can really do what you're asking it to do for
you, because if it can't, then what you're asking it to do needs to be
abandoned. It's a futile road. And sometimes as you whittle away, The
things in you, the inclination in you to Try to obtain something that's
not available. In other words, to get love to do something for you that
love is incapable of doing. Sometimes in the whittling away of those.
Wasted intents. You seem to come down to only 1 or 2 things and that can
feel rather empty, but when you come down to 1 or 2 or 3 things. You,
you can recognize the consistency between them. You can recognize the
similarity, and once you see those similarities, you have the capacity
to recognize other areas. where love can benefit you, and then the
answer to the question, the answers. Grow in number. The real questions
are what do you treasure and how much do you treasure it and I added,
and why.

