---
 title: Where its at
 audiofn: Where_its_at
---

## {{page.title}}

This really is what you're here for. You exist for no other purpose than
what I've said before, glorifying God. And the way you glorify God is by
witnessing truly about each other. Acknowledging God right there. This
is where it's at. And everyone has a daughter or a son or a parent or a
boss or a friend or a relative. That really gets you where it hurts. If
it's getting you where it hurts, it's because you're choosing to use
your mind. For some purpose other than witnessing for what is true about
them. Not because of what they're doing. This is a very important point.
You suffer because of what you're choosing to witness for. It is never
because of their actions. When you believe the presentation, the ego
presentations that another gives. And you bear witness to that. You are
doing nothing to change the situation. And if you don't like the
situation, take responsibility. And do what will make a difference. Now,
when somebody gives you an ego presentation that you don't like, And you
confirm to him. That he's a bastard. You've got a game going, and your
behavior elicits more of the behavior you don't like. When I speak to
you and share with you what's true about you, doesn't it elicit a
different kind of behavior than the behavior your husband or your son or
your daughter or your relative elicits from you? You can make a
difference by your response. And the difference will depend on whether
that response is witnessing for what is true. Or witnessing For what is
false. Because whatever you witness for you convict that one too. And
you can convict one to waking up. You can convict one to healing.
Convict doesn't mean Putting them down and proving it. When you convict
someone the way I'm talking about, you inspire them to have a new
conviction about life. They become convicted about something. You see
what I'm saying? And you all have the means of convicting others into
the very best about them. So Remember this. You can't witness for
yourself and your fellow man can't witness for himself. Someone else has
to witness for him or her. Someone else has to witness for you. One on
one privately. The two of you together in front of someone else
publicly. And you must be willing to do it because that's your function.
To glorify God right there and pronounce it. Express it out into the
world, so to speak. Glorify God right there because That's your
function.


