---
 title: Will ye first seek the Kingdom
 audiofn: Will_ye_first_seek_the_Kingdom
---

## {{page.title}}

The limits you are all experiencing. are the result of free will being
expressed. The free will to Give your own definitions to everything
without getting. Their meaning From that which created them in the first
place in order for you to have something to make up a definition about.
You know what you're doing when you turn within. And you ask To have an
experience of the real meaning of each thing. That goes beyond your
current experience of it. What you're doing is you're saying. Father I
want your vision. I want The will that you are expressing Right where
this thing is. To be established in me. As my conscious experience. And
Override And eliminate My current definitions. My current perceptions.
And at the bottom line, what you're saying is, Father, I'm asking for
the will you are expressing. To render null and void and nonexistent.
Any personal will I thought I had. As long as you are exercising
willfulness by determining what a thing is to be in your own mind. You
are depriving yourself of being inseparable from at one with. The
movement of capital B being, which is the Father willing. Creating A new
Being all that is new. You will not be swallowed up in anything rather.
You will find yourself standing where the fountain pours forth. Into
expression And you will experience yourself being the place where it
pours forth through. Which is what the father experiences. Thy will be
done is a request For you to no longer be subject to Distorted
perceptions. Of reality Or the movement of creation itself. It
constitutes a coming back into what your true real identity is. Instead
of seek ye first the kingdom of heaven, say, will ye first the kingdom
of heaven. What that means is you're returning authority to the only
place where authorship is. You're saying, Father. I yield to what you
will. Will ye first the kingdom of heaven. And I'll stop. Willing The
world and universe. The distorted perception of the kingdom of heaven.
You see, you exist only for the purpose of standing in receipt of your
inheritance. Your function is to forever stand in receipt of your
inheritance. Which comes from the father. And when you accept that
inheritance. When you stand in receipt because you've abandoned any
sense of personal private authorship of your own. What happens is there
is a shift. Of conscious experience. In which you find yourself at one
with and inseparable from the emergence of all that is. And Your
inheritance isn't something you stand in receipt of. It is what
constitutes you in your totality. It is a new experience of identity.
Far superior. Than the identity you thought you created for yourself by
being an independent author willing. Things to be What you said they
were. Rather than what God was being.


