---
 title: Witnessing for another
 audiofn: Witnessing_for_another
---

## {{page.title}}

I want you to think about loving one another as witnessing for one
another. Standing with another. On his or her behalf. That means that
when your brother has chosen not to bear witness to his divinity. But
rather to the worst in himself. You don't agree with him. You don't look
at him and say, what a bastard he's being. That's not witnessing for
him. That's not being the presence that can transform and heal your
brother or sister. Are you witnessing 4 Less than that one's divinity.
What are you standing with that person for? When you witness for
somebody. You end up convicting that person. And you can either convict
that person for their Lack or for their problem or for their bitchy
attitude or for their illness. Or you can convict them. For their
health, their wholeness, their divinity, because at least you didn't
forget. Who she really was. The direct expression of God in whom God is
well pleased. And from whom God has withheld nothing of what He is
perfectly being right there where she is. You have the option and you
Enact the option. By how you choose to witness for that other one. How
you choose to stand with that other one. And you do it all day long. You
always stand. With another On behalf of what they truly are or on behalf
of what they think they are. And at the moment I'm not going to go into
The fact that sometimes you witness for what you think they are. Whether
they think they are or not. And that's another matter. As I have loved
you. Love one another. It's the extension of love that changes or will
change the world. And the way you witness for or against another.
determines how blessed. The world is and how much the world can bless
you. When your brother is down, is when your brother needs a witness.
When your brother is not in the best place, that's when your brother
needs a witness, somebody standing with him or with her. Through the
thick of it and making commitment to stand with that one until they come
through on the other side of whatever the problem is. You all need each
other to witness for each other with commitment. That's how you love one
another. You witness for each other. And you choose wisely as to what
you are going to witness to about your brother. So that you don't end up
witnessing to The worst in them, whether it's the worst in them that you
are thinking about them, or whether it's the worst in them that they are
thinking about themselves.

