---
 title: Witnessing for the Miraculous
 audiofn: Witnessing_for_the_Miraculous
---

## {{page.title}}

We read last week that as you stepped lightly across the bridge to
timelessness. Uphel by timelessness You are directed straight to the
heart of God. At its center and only there you are safe forever because
you are complete forever. Let's pay attention to what the words say. The
words say that when you're there you are complete forever. Do you think
you have never been At the center of the heart of God. Do you think that
you were never ever? The holy Son or daughter of God without any
ignorance of your Divinity of your wholeness of your completeness. Do
you think that God created you imperfect, with a capacity to become
perfect? Then the simple fact is that You could never step lightly
across the bridge upheld by timelessness. And find yourself directed
straight to the heart of God. And at its center and only there find
yourself complete forever forever means. Forever It means before and now
after without any of it being divided up, it's forever. It's always,
it's immutably unchangeably the fact of being. And if you can at some
point step into the conscious experience of your completeness forever,
then you are stepping into what could only have been a preexisting
state. An ever present state. Even though you were thinking you were
incomplete. Partial Alone separated. So if you're going to find yourself
complete in the heart of God at any point in your existence, It's not
going to be a new state of being for you. It's going to be your natural
state of being that you've always been in. But which you have been
unconscious of. And more than that, It's something you have been
Consciously ignoring And how do you consciously ignore it? By
consciously denying Your completeness by consciously denying the
miraculous. By consciously denying The evidence of your completeness.
And when you deny the evidence of your completeness, when you deny it as
a The eternal state of your being. You create a dissonance within
yourselves. Which distracts you from the conscious experience of your
eternal state of being. Many of you do. Find ways To claim that you are
not the holy Son of God. And that there is not justification for you. To
have perfect vision. Or perfectly functioning kidneys. Or a capacity to
run the 4 minute mile or the 3 minute mile perhaps. Or the capacity to
Give evidence to the miraculous. Now If it isn't about denying those
things, Then why, why learn about completeness? Why learn about your
holiness? Why learn about your holiness if, if you aren't to take hold
of it, if you aren't to grasp it and embrace it and embody it,
incorporate it. So that it changes you. Because I'll tell you One who is
complete forever. In the heart of God. Is blemish free. Is imperfection
free. And only the loveliness of love everywhere. But you argue against
the miracle. You do argue against the miracle. At the bottom line, you
are all afraid of miracles. Maybe not the little ones. But the big ones,
you're afraid of. In fact, the big ones. You will often use as a means
of Applying guilt to yourselves. And making yourself miserable. If you
uh Or in a plane crash. And you are one of 3 people who survive. It
would be called a miracle. And yet Very often Your survival constitutes.
A justification for grief. Why me? Why did I not die? And everyone else
did. If you go through a hurricane. And your dwelling is least damaged.
You feel uncomfortable around everyone else. Because you're not as bad
off as they are. How much is too much good? Well, too much good Is the
amount of good that estranges you from your brothers and sisters.
Attitudes have to change about. Miracles. Miracles have got to start
being embraced. Completeness has to be embraced as something to take
hold of and love. And expect to find embodied by you in your daily life,
in your actions, in your body, in your relationships. And you had better
begin to expect to see the evidence of completeness. There Because if
you don't, it's only because you are expecting not to see it. You are
disallowing the miraculous. So let me ask you, At the end of this day.
Ask yourself. Have I given evidence to the miraculous today? Have I
witnessed the miraculous? Did I not miss it through lack of attention?
Because I'll tell you the miraculous happens in front of you every day.
Why do I say that? Because God is appearing in front of you every day.
God is the only thing manifesting in front of you at any given moment.
Did you give evidence to the miraculous by witnessing it? Or were you
too preoccupied with your Problems in Your grievances and uh your
jealousies and your fears, etc. So did you. Witness the miraculous. Or
did you facilitate? The miraculous During your day Or Did you allow the
miraculous to happen to you? During the day You should be able to say
yes to all three of them. And you should be able to say yes to all three
of them multiple times every day. You know, there are those who devote
their lives to uh the practice of healing. Healing As the result of
Doing the two step Healing as a result of Joining with the father.
Wanting to know the father's perspective. About One who needs to be
healed. So that this healer may join with the father. In acknowledgement
of the truth, in acknowledgement of the experience of the truth of this
one needing healing. And there is an expectation. That healing will
occur. And the one asking for healing is in expectation of healing
occurring. And when the expectation is in alignment, And when it is not
interfered with by doubt. Or arguments against the healing. There's not
just a shift of perception, there's a shift of experience. And the blind
can see and the kidneys work. And the body functions. Now, One could say
Let's say the one needing healing. Could say Why should I deserve
healing? When there are thousands of people. In and out of hospitals
around the world. Dying from this very same illness. Or suffering from
this very same illness, why should I Experience healing. Why, why should
I get special attention? Well, Fortunately for those Practicing Healing
That question Doesn't make sense and is corrected immediately. In the
recognition that Every time a belief in lack. Is overcome is negated and
is replaced by wholeness. It lessens the density of the belief of lack.
In the world And so one deserves. To experience healing because first of
all it honors the Father. By giving evidence of the father's perfection
right where you are. And if you have the evidence of the presence of God
right where you are. That evidence. Of the miraculous in the human
experience. Lifts the human experience, you might say. Lowers the
density. Of the confidence everyone has. In the impossibility of the
miraculous. And this is needed. And it needs to be taken hold of and
embraced consciously. With no reservation, no. Doubt No guilt You
experiencing the miraculous. Demonstrate the reality of the miraculous.
Give evidence to wholeness. Which at the least is inspiring to all who
are not experiencing their wholeness. And if they misunderstand what's
happening and they do become jealous of you, well, who are you to
deserve to Not have cancer anymore without going through chemotherapy
and all the rugged shit. Who the hell are you to have this experience
and not me. Well, I am Just like you. And because I'm just like you.
What's happened to me Is your birthright as well? And I'll be glad to
stand with you. In honor of your birthright. I'm willing to stand with
you. As evidence of the truth about you. So that you might not feel At a
disadvantage. Because of my supposed advantage over you. Let us stand
together. In the name of the miracle. So that then you and I healed,
have lessened further the density of the belief in the Uncorrecttability
of this illness or disease. Somebody has to be willing to step out of
the crab barrel. Why? So that once out of the crab barrel you can say,
look, come on, I will stand here until you've made it out and I will
encourage you to come. You can see I'm out and you know I was in there
before. Somebody has to bear witness to the miraculous. Someone has to
give evidence to the miraculous because everyone deserves to see that
the miraculous is actually absolutely normal and is everyone's
birthright and that no one any longer needs. To stand in ignorance of
his birthright. How much is too much good? How much is too much good to
wish for your brother? Stand with your brother. And you Be an agent for
change. By finding no miracle too grand. Or 2 excessive. Don't try to
imagine what that will be. Take what I'm saying within. Do the two step
Asked the father. What is the truth here? Share with me the experience
of the truth here. So that I'm out of my head. And into my heart Where I
feel The truth. Help may be in the holy instant. In that place where I'm
introducing nothing extraneous to or different from the movement of God.
And help me experience what that is. So that in my experience of it, I
find myself knowing. Not as a bit of information, but as an experience,
the truth about my brother. The truth about my brother. That may go far
beyond. The most miraculous thing I could think of. Where the meaning of
completeness forever. Registers with me. And causes me to have a shift
of perception in which I see my brother embraced in the meaning and the
experience of completeness forever, you see. You don't know what that
will be. The holy instant is perhaps the most Powerful idea. Expressed
in the course. It's also the simplest. Because every single one of you
has the capacity. To step into the holy instant. Each one of you has the
capacity. To shut yourselves up, to silence your mind so that you can
listen. And in that silence desire. Of the Father of the source of your
being. To know the truth, why? So that you can. Facilitate the
miraculous. And so that you can let the miraculous in. To you. And so
that you can Recognize the miraculous in your day.

