---
 title: workbook ammi
 audiofn: workbook_ammi
---

## {{page.title}}

What, what role does the workbook play in this mind training? An
incredible one. Is completion of the workbook important in
understanding? The message of the course. Would you say that again? Is
completion of the workbook lessons important in understanding the
message of the course? Or in accomplishing the goals of the course.
Everything about the lessons in the workbook. are aimed at Fissing you
Into the position. of willingly Yielding to God. The workbook. Promotes
The shifts of awareness. That occur As one Slowly or quickly abandons.
His or her commitment to His or her own best definitions and best
judgments and best thoughts. And Join with The brotherhood join with
God, reunite at an experiential level. Can this happen without? Doing
the workbook. Absolutely. As I said last week, You're confronted only by
reality. And in effect every single object, every single thing in your
experience. is creation itself. Seen through a glass darkly. And in
effect Creation being what it divinely is. Every aspect of it is like. A
shake on the shoulder. While you're dreaming your dreams. You're
constantly getting the invitation. To wake up. And So any event of your
day, any sentence in the course. In the text Can easily be The shake on
the shoulder, the, the divine event that causes you to Make enough of a
shift. That more of your attention is on the reality outside your
perception, outside of your dream. So that you can make commitment. To
moving there in your awareness. Does that answer your question? So if
then any sentence or any lesson or any part can bring about this shift.
Then there's no need to make any commitment to the entirety of the
workbook. Is that what you're saying? The workbook I'm going to put it
this way, the workbook is the most advanced tool. Present in the human
condition, if I may put it that way. So you would recommend it to
everyone listening. I would recommend it. I would recommend it to
everyone who finds themselves led. To look at it And to engage with it.
It is very specifically. Constructed, if you will. So as To effectively
cut through. The patterns of thought, the definitions, the meanings that
you have all given to the kingdom of heaven that cause it to appear to
be something different. And to wean you away from The ego structures.
that are not you. But which you firmly believe are you. And it is
constructed in such a way. As to cause this to happen. In spite of your
egos. If you want to know what it is. It is a most effective means. Of
distracting your egos. Over a period of a year. In a manner That causes
it to be inattentive to the places where the divine you. Recognizes
itself. And your attention shifts with greater honor. To the divine one
that you are. So that there is room for God to enter once again into
your conscious awareness as your conscious awareness, and you come home
into your right mind. Now If the workbook Is the most advanced tool
present. In the human condition in the dream. At this moment For waking
up. Then it behooves you. To avail yourself of it. But what I will not
condone or support. is Any form Of Bible thumping, any form of course
thumping, any form of saying. This is your answer. Digest it whether you
want to or not, and if you don't, you're foolish. You know what, You
could go through the workbook for a full year. And be finessed. Into a
greater state of being awake, into a greater state of clarity. Without
Turning to the altar. In the middle of you. Without turning to that
flame, if you will, that illumination that is your essential self.
Because it's the presence of God being God right there as you. Because
you are part of the infiniteness of what God is. And so You can Devote
yourself for a year. To turning with them Turning back toward the altar.
And being taught of it by letting it in. And You might actually make
more progress. Than if you study the workbook for a year. Why? Because
Turning to the flame within you, the divinity within you. That is you
Causes an intimate involvement between you as you presently perceive and
experience yourself to be. And the divine one that you are. And there is
a one on one relationship, it would seem. Between you and yourself. And
that involvement. Even if it is one that doesn't quite cause you to
yield. To the divine you that you're relating to completely. It
nevertheless Keeps you constantly in touch. With what is real. What's
real about you? And That kind of relationship. Because it's purely
experiential. Will move you. Unalterably In the direction of your
awakening. So the mind training. would be helpful in a situation like
Robbie's where it becomes muddled. As you're out in the world
experiencing. All this that appears to be coming at you absolutely.
Anything that helps you discipline your mind. Is profitable If it is
disciplining your mind. To give its attention in the right direction.
And yield Anything that helps you become less sloppy. In the use of your
mind, or shall I say the use of thoughts. is beneficial And as I said,
There is no more advanced tool. In the dream At the moment Than the
workbook. Thank you. You're welcome.

