---
 title: Yield to the Fathers Will
 audiofn: Yield_to_the_Fathers_Will
---

## {{page.title}}

The phrase in the Lord's prayer says, Thy will be done. Well, if that
doesn't mean becoming a puppet, I don't know what it means. If that
doesn't mean deferring to God, if that doesn't mean yielding to God, I
don't know what it means. And if you're yielding to God, Then you are
ceasing to be a point or source of authority. Where through your will
you cause something to happen. Such an idea It is absolutely horrifying
to the ego. In fact, most upon hearing me say what I just said, would
say, oh, you're carrying this too far. I mean, I love the Lord's prayer,
but To not exercise my own will ever. You go too far. But what isn't
understood is. That when you choose to act as though you have
Self-originated authority. You have disconnected yourself from the
experience of God. And as I've said many times, Have thereby caused the
kingdom of heaven to look like the world, a polarized phenomenon,
positive and negative, good, bad. Constantly in a state of conflict with
itself and somehow finding reasonable balance so that it doesn't destroy
itself. And so your experience is one of conflict and the surmounting of
it. You're not going to find your wholeness. You're not going to find
your peace. You're not going to find your utter safety. Until you're
willing to yield to the Father's will. Constantly But I will tell you
something. As you begin little by little. You will find that the result
of doing that. is not destructive but beneficial. It doesn't promote
reaction but harmony. Even if you are asking for something that somebody
objects to. You are a benign presence. As you do this, you find
Validation you might say for the principle of saying and embodying the
meaning of the words thy will be done. There is improvement. That part
of your life changed. And that can give you courage to do it more often
in more circumstances. Very simply, you are not self-created. You didn't
create yourself. You, you might say you found yourself existing. Then if
you're not the source of your existence, what is? Well, Those who have
sought after the answer to that question. have in many different ways.
Shared with others. That The experience of communion with whatever the
source is, is available. So you know what, let's be real simple. If
doing it all yourself has been a struggle, why not experiment with
reaching out to God, expecting an answer. Letting it register with you.
When it's provided. And see what the result is. And if the result is
confirming and beneficial and harmonizing, then persist.

