---
 title: Yielding to the river
 audiofn: Yielding_to_the_river
---

## {{page.title}}

The yielding to the river. Symbolizes Yielding to the father's
perspective. Which means That you want to look at everything. Joined
With the better perspective. So that you might have the opportunity to
see the truth of what is going on. And so that as long as the truth of
what is going on. Doesn't seem to be manifested in the world. You might
know how to behave relative to the world. In a manner that promotes the
manifestation. Of what is true. The problem you all have is that you
look at everything all by yourselves. And when you do that, You can only
interpret everything based upon your prior experience. So you are
looking at everything through the lens of the past. When you're looking
at things alone. You're always seeing the past. Meaning Your mind's eye
of the past. You all rely upon Memory For your comfort. Or for whatever
sense of peace you have. Determining what you're seeing based upon the
only information you have which is from the past. Current past
information, you might say. Currently accessed past information. You
want to, to look with someone whose perspective is not gathered from
your memory. Which means from your Personal past with All of the
Idiosyncratic misperceptions. That you created because you used the past
to create new current misperceptions all along the way. And so like the
Bible that has gotten altered multiple times, you have altered your
memory banks multiple times so that you appear to be a new you with new
beliefs, but it's just been. Rearranging ignorance so that it looks new
to you. Now And I'm trying to point out to you that you all employ the
past constantly and in very complex ways and You demean yourself
constantly through its use. There is no way for you to use the past to
get out of the habit of using the past. But just, just be aware. Of how
you're always dealing with the past and there is nothing else to deal
with if you are insisting upon functioning as an independent.
Self-existent, authoritative. Entity Who never inquires beyond his own
memory banks, and that's all you've got. You may think you think
originally, but every, you can't use a word that isn't in your memory
bank, can you? If you haven't learned the word and deposited in your
memory bank, you can't use that word. You can't conceptualize anything
that isn't already in your memory bank, but you can take disparate
things in your memory bank and join them together and say, voila,
something radically new, and it's still the past. Because if you're
doing it alone, it's the past, it's memory. You've got to go outside the
memory banks to gather new data. And you gather new data by saying help.
By saying, by asking a question. What's the truth about this? Now I've
given you new things to have in your memory banks. I've told you that
there is a God. I've told you that God is responsive. I've told you that
if you ask a question. You have servants awaiting you. Whose function it
is to provide you with the new information. So now that's a memory. But
the memory points you in the direction of not accessing the memory
banks. You see, And it tells you that when you move in a direction other
than the memory banks, there is a source of information. That it's your
birthright to be experiencing constantly. The only thing is it's not the
purpose for you to have that information so you can put it in your
memory banks and continue to work out of the past. Ultimately, the point
is to stay constantly, well, let's put it this way, you've been used to
working if you have a computer, you've been used to working on your
little separate isolated computer on your desktop. But there are ways
for your isolated computer on the desktop to connect to what's called a
mainframe computer.

