---
 title: You need each other
 audiofn: You_need_each_other
---

## {{page.title}}

Waking up. Has nothing to do with becoming so sovereign. That you don't
need each other. Part of waking up. is the essential discovery that you
all do need each other completely. That means that you have to learn to
dare to let each other in, even with the potentials for control that can
occur because control is everybody's well-developed habit. And you must
dare to do it hopefully. With a commitment to each other. That because
you do desire to wake up. Because you do desire to More fully express
what God is, whatever that truly means. That You will do the best with
each other, and this is in any relationship, that you will do the best
you can with each other. to not bring Means of control into play. And
that if you do begin to, you will try to catch it or you will help each
other to catch it. So that you can stop it as quickly as possible. So
that old ego. habits of freaking out around control issues. Don't have
an opportunity to form and fester because nobody's saying anything to
each other. Communicate for the purpose of reassuring each other of
where you're really coming from around. The issues that you would
normally freak out about. Maintain really good communication for the
purpose of reassurance. And reassure by being Utterly honest. This is
the way you love each other through. Let us say The breaking of an old
habit. In this case, the breaking of the old habit will be the breaking
of the habit of of independence. And daring to let The need for each
other exists. And then communicating well so that you can discover that
it really isn't dangerous. To acknowledge the need. You need each other.
It is not that I say, just the two of you who need each other, but the
two of you in your own right need everyone else in this room and
everyone else. On this planet and every one of the brotherhood who are
awake and that you're not consciously aware of at the moment. Because
they are part of the infinitude of you and you're part of the infinitude
of them. You need them like you need God. And I will tell you that all
of us stand with all of you, all of us who are awake stand with all of
you on your behalf. To serve you because we love you. And We want you to
become unencumbered with your ignorances and your fears. So that you
might play with us, so that you might be with us consciously in an
unconcerned way, in, in a way that isn't fraught with um learning,
learning, learning, improving, improving, improving. You need each other
because you all are already one and inseparable. And there is a much
fuller experience of your oneness, that it's your birthright to be
experiencing. And it all has a part in Becoming fully awake and
enlightened. So Because you can't possibly. Become defenseless against
all of the brotherhood. All at once You begin with one other. Or a few
others. One primary relationship, many friendships. Where you practice
becoming defenseless, where you practice letting in, where you practice
feeling your need and not apologizing for it. Not being Mad about it.
Not feeling that you're a failure because Spiritual sovereignty was the
ultimate goal as you had seen it. You must dare to feel your need for
each other. Because It's where the feeling is that constitutes the
threshold of moving back into oneness, moving back into unity. Moving
back into undefended involvement. You know, no matter how far along your
spiritual path any of you who are hearing my voice might be at this
moment. Your way of relating with each other is through means of
control. If you want The control that you exercise over each other to be
allowed, you find what you call loving ways. To express the control. And
if you have no finesse, you just do it any way it works. But the fact is
that no one of you really dares to entrust yourselves to each other. And
yet that entrusting of yourself to another. is It is like plugging the
toaster into the socket. What I mean by that is that it's not shocking.
What I mean is that a toaster not plugged into the socket cannot fulfill
its function. And when When need for each other is not felt. The energy
For the fulfilling experience of communion cannot occur. And so, no
matter how deftly and artistically you manipulate each other into
something beautiful. Connection still hasn't occurred. Because neither
one of you has entrusted yourself to the other. Not one of you has
really let yourself feel, oh, nasty word, needy. Until you do though.
The spigot on the faucet isn't open and no, no, no water can flow, no
love can flow. The experience of communion can't occur. And so you're
still alone. You're still experiencing the exact opposite of what the
conscious experience of being is. When you allow yourself to feel your
need. And when you become less defended, So that you can let someone
else in. You become A more wonderful presence for someone else to let
in. And Becoming undefended together. Allows a new experience of harmony
to come into play. In which neediness doesn't set you up as prey for
opportunists. But sets you up for an increasingly harmonious experience
that tends to multiply itself. And grow And bless But you have to dare
to risk the The vulnerability that you associate with Feeling need And
becoming defenseless. And letting in that which meets the need. And then
as I said, Communicating a lot. So that your true motives are being
expressed and misunderstanding cannot spontaneously occur and False
expectations based on past history. With those you have been in
relationship with. Do not blind you. To the something new that may be
happening now. And which you've set the stage for by Again, daring to
feel your need. Becoming undefended. Letting someone in. And having the
opportunity In that communion For the need to disappear because it's
being met. Met through togetherness. Not met Through sovereignty Not met
through Exclusive sovereignty. Then instead of being valuable because
you were able to be exclusively sovereign. You are able to be
successful. Because you and your brother Being undefended against each
other. With honest motives of love. have allowed something to form. That
blesses both of you. And in your particular case, Blesses everyone else.
Who will stand in receipt of the gift. That is emerging from you. So
This is Very important. For all of you

