---
 title: You receive as much as you let in
 audiofn: You_receive_as_much_as_you_let_in
---

## {{page.title}}

You Always receive exactly as much as you're able to receive. You are
always receiving as much as you let in. And so if you are up for more
right now, you will have more right now because you are the one who
holds the keys, not me. So, At any given instant you will have as much
more. Of the experience of your right mind. And the experience of
enlightenment. As you can possibly allow in that moment. But as I said
earlier, you can constantly invite more by being curious to see more. By
letting your desire to see more. Express a greater need. Then you need
to see things as they are at the moment. Now Your sense of your identity
is absolutely tied into The way you perceive things at the moment. And
how much more of reality you can absorb at any given time. Because
inseparable with seeing more of reality. is having a new experience of
who and what you are. And if there were too fantastic a leap between
your present sense of yourself and a radically changed experience of who
you really are. There would be a gap of continuity. And you wouldn't
know who you were. You right now, and this is very important and this is
true of every one of you are experiencing. The real you, because there's
only one you. That which is listening to me at this moment is the real
you. But you do have in place a myriad of definitions and meanings as to
who you think you are. And how much of good you can bear and how much of
bad you can bear and how you must be with other people and how other
people must be with you. And all of this ties in with your definition or
sense of who you are. Even though these definitions are definitions
about the one and only you, there really is. There will be an unbroken
continuity between your present experience of yourself. As it expands
into A true experience of what you divinely are. There will be a
continuity of identity even though transformation has occurred. And for
you to change instantaneously. would constitute a move or you might say
a track of, of identity that changed so rapidly. You would lose The
sense of who you really are. So it won't happen faster than you can bear
to have it happen without losing. The continuity of your identity so
that when you are fully awake. You know who you are and you know that
you are the one that you're now experiencing in an enlightened state.
That you are the same one that you were when you seem to be in
ignorance.

