---
 title: You cant do it on your own
 audiofn: You_cant_do_it_on_your_own
---

## {{page.title}}

You can't do it on your own because that's an independent act. An
independent action was what caused the dream, so to speak, the false
sense of separation. The ego will not be able to take credit for this
because there won't be any independent action associated with it. And
therefore no one to take credit. You can't minimize the ego first. You
have to ask for guidance first, and as you let it in. The minimization
of the ego begins. The key really lies in each one of you arriving at a
point where you need help and you actually say help. When you really
need help is when you are is, is when you're most able to see the value
and not relying upon yourself. And that's, that is a wonderful point to
arrive at. Because as long as you think you can handle things pretty
well yourself, you won't say help, and you will be completely blocked
from. Escaping The illusion of being separate. You can let God in. You
can let the Holy Spirit in. You can let your guide in. And there are
others who are not your guides who stand ready on your behalf. Because
all of us who are awake. Look forward to Full involvement with you. Not
just occasional. Involvement with you, you see. It's not just that you
let us in, you let us through. You must defer to us. And ultimately what
that means is you must defer to God. And that's why it seems difficult
because you have to abandon your apparent right to authorize things
yourself.

