---
 title: You are confronted with reality
 audiofn: You_are_confronted_with_reality
---

## {{page.title}}

It may have sounded as though I was saying that waking up would take
time. As though Illusion couldn't. Suddenly disappear. And that is not
what I meant to convey. It's important to understand that in the
illustration of the funnel. That the funnel itself is hanging in the
middle of infinity. It isn't outside of infinity. It does seem to block
the visual experience of infinity. Uh, but It isn't an experience going
on in some place other than infinity. It's important to understand, as
I've said before, but not to you, that right now, at every moment,
You're confronted with reality. No matter how you are perceiving it, you
are confronted with reality. You are confronted with the kingdom of
heaven. There's nothing else for you to be experiencing. Your
destination, as it were in the process of waking up. is not going to be
somewhere else. It isn't as though I'm saying, well, you're going to
have to continue to live in the earth condition. Until you finally Give
up all willfulness and then Suddenly you will Disappear from the earth
experience and find yourself in the kingdom of heaven. This is not an
experience to endure until you wake up. This is the kingdom of heaven
that you are experiencing right now, but through a glass darkly, you
might say. Through lenses of perception that are distorting it and
making it look very unlovely, unlike heaven. So This process of coming
back into your right mind. It is not a process. Which you will not
experience the benefit of until it's completed and then you're zapped
out of the earth experience. As you begin to be willing to yield. To be
curious as to what the Father's will is, to be curious as to how you fit
in. To be curious as to how to be utterly appropriate in any given
moment. Not by virtue of your reasoning and your figuring things out. Or
attempting to get things you want, but because you're listening. Deeply
To feel from God. Where to be and what to do and when to do it. And the,
the uh garments that you've put on as a, as an insulation against
feeling. Your divinity are discarded The kingdom of heaven that you were
seeing through a glass darkly will be seen through a glass less darkly.
And you are going to see your world changing. You're going to see your
experience changing. You will have evidence. Of your less conflicted
frame of mind. So We're not talking about suffering and we're not
talking about time. But we're talking about attending to the use you are
putting your mind to. So that you put it to a better use. So that as you
put it to a better use, you have ongoing increasing evidence. That
indeed you never left the kingdom of heaven. And The more you are
curious to see is coming to view, which will confirm to you that the
more you continue to wish to see. That will come to view as well, and so
there will begin to be a little bit of grace to the process. The point
is to begin to engage in doing it.

