---
 title: You are not in charge
 audiofn: You_are_not_in_charge
---

## {{page.title}}

You're not in charge. The only thing you can decide to do is to yield to
God. And whether you decide to or not, you will. their choice to be
different. Has given them, all of you, an experience of being on the
outside of everything instead of in the middle of it, or instead of it
all being in the middle of you. You know what, and this is true of every
single one of you. You're all here with me. And here is not somewhere
else. I could say I'm here with you. But then you would interpret that
to mean that I was in your concept of where you are. You are right here
with me in the middle of the kingdom of heaven. I am companioning with
you. Whether you can hear me talking to you in this fashion or whether
you're um Somewhere else and you don't hear me at all. You know, I'm
companioning with Buddha and you at this very instant. Those who are
awake hear everyone, experience everyone constantly, including you.
That's why I Continually convey. Um, That it's not difficult to wake up.
And that's why I encourage everyone to be curious to see the more of
reality right here in the leaves or right here in the glass. Right there
in each other. Because it's just a little tweak. And that's why I say
it's not hard work and you don't have to earn it. All you have to do is
become curious. Open your mind a little bit. And don't imagine that it's
going to be hard. It's, it's much easier to play into the common dream
or the common. Definition of everything. But remember that it's just a
little tweak. To Not be in the dream any longer.

