---
 title: You are salvation
 audiofn: You_are_salvation
---

## {{page.title}}

You are the salvation of the world. At the least you can see. That your
willingness to abandon Your well established definitions of everything.
Puts you in a position. Of your seeing your world. With less bias. And
if you were able to be completely free of your agreed upon definitions
and biases, You would be able to see. The world and universe as the
kingdom of heaven that it actually is. You would be able to see totally
clearly. So in that sense, you can grasp. Just How completely you
govern. What you're experiencing. In that sense you can see that you are
the salvation. Of the world you're seeing. So, What you could miss out
on is the fact That when you are seeing The world Through the eyes of
salvation perfectly in other words. You have withdrawn from the mutually
agreed upon definitions that Constitute the joining that is mutual
dreaming. And you have lessened the dream. And you also have become A
maximal agent for change. Because everything that comes from you is pure
love. That answers the call for love from others with love. Which lays
the groundwork for everyone that you're in touch with. To have an
experience of More safety That allows them to trust more. And for
everyone in the brotherhood who is still dreaming dreams. That you are
not in one on one contact that you know of. Everyone is blessed. As well
And so your simple clarity. In which the world you see. I saved is seen
without bias. Demonstrates the fact that you are the salvation of the
world. And it blesses everyone else as well. So it's more than just you
having a clearer picture of everything.

