---
title: Feb 5, 2012
ref: "T18.4 The Little Willingness"
alink: "/acim/text/18/chap1804/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us
on the Internet.

I&rsquo;m going to back up a couple of sentences, which we read last
week:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle of the holy instant lies in your willingness to let it be
what it is. And in your willingness for this lies also your acceptance
of yourself as YOU were meant to be.[^1]
</div>

Sounds like a simple idea. It is, but everyone tends to make it
complicated.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle of the holy instant lies in your willingness to let it be
what it is.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to read it with this emphasis:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It lies in your willingness to let it be what it is.
</div>

You see? You don&rsquo;t know what it is. And that&rsquo;s why
you&rsquo;re still dreaming. That&rsquo;s why you&rsquo;re still
experiencing life in the Kingdom of Heaven as just the human condition.

Your willingness to let the holy instant work lies in your recognition
that you don&rsquo;t know what it is and that&rsquo;s why you&rsquo;re
asking. And the key is, when you&rsquo;re asking, to make no assumptions
whatsoever and let it be what it is and in the process, educate you as
to what it is &hellip; put you in the position of learning what you
didn&rsquo;t know. So the key is not to try to be prepared when you lean
into the holy instant. Just be willing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And in your willingness for this lies also your acceptance of yourself
as YOU were meant to be.
</div>

Yes. You as YOU were meant to be, you as you divinely Are, are the
presence of attention. Not the problem-solver, not the intellectual
corrections officer. Your task, your purpose, is to be the presence of
attention where you let Creation reveal itself to you as your conscious
awareness of Being, which amounts to letting God&rsquo;s Perspective
fill you because God&rsquo;s Perspective is your true Perspective.

Now it&rsquo;s really quite simple if you stop to think about it. If
you&rsquo;re busy thinking, if you&rsquo;re busy trying to be a problem
solver, if you&rsquo;re busy trying to do things your way, you are not
listening, are you. You&rsquo;re not in a mode of attention where your
mind is still.

Now, it&rsquo;s very simple. The difference between being in a state of
attention and being in a state of assertion is the difference between
being Awake and being asleep. It really is that simple. It really is
that fundamental.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in your willingness for this lies also your acceptance of
yourself as YOU were meant to be.
</div>

Not arguing with it anymore, not fighting for the last chance to be in
charge. Now, that&rsquo;s going to leave you in a position where you
could say all the meaning has gone out of your life. All the meaning
you&rsquo;ve been able to give yourself is gone because you&rsquo;ve
abandoned the assertive role&mdash;the role of initiator.

Now that&rsquo;s humiliating to the ego. But when it&rsquo;s embraced
without resistance, it&rsquo;s called humility. And it isn&rsquo;t
meaningless. As it says here, continuing:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Humility will never ask that you remain content with littleness.
</div>

&hellip; meaninglessness, inconsequentialness. No.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Humility will never ask that you remain content with them. But it DOES
require that you be NOT content with less than greatness &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; now if the sentence ended there, that could be very satisfying
to you. And you could slip right out of the opportunity to Wake up. But
here&rsquo;s what it actually says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Humility &hellip; DOES require that you be NOT content with less than
greatness which comes not of you.
</div>

You&rsquo;ve got to be content with greatness that you didn&rsquo;t
initiate, that you didn&rsquo;t develop, that you didn&rsquo;t create
and therefore that you cannot get credit for. Let me read it again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Humility &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Birthright, that out of which your fulfillment arises
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will never ask that you remain content with littleness. But it
DOES require that you be NOT content with less than greatness which
comes not of you.
</div>

Your difficulty with the holy instant, your difficulty with the
two-step, your difficulty with engaging in what will prompt your
Awakening, arises from your fixed conviction that you&rsquo;re not
worthy of it.

Well, you know, that&rsquo;s what the ego says. But what it really means
is that it requires you to abandon something important to you, so
important to you that you&rsquo;re perfectly willing to lie to yourself
and say that your fulfillment is something you&rsquo;re not worthy of
and therefore, you can&rsquo;t have it! Pretty slick.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your difficulty with the holy instant &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as something practical, as something worth engaging &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; arises from your fixed conviction that you are not worthy of
it.
</div>

Your fixed conviction that you&rsquo;re not worthy of it is your armor
&hellip; it&rsquo;s the means by which you avoid having to abandon
authority that is all important to you. That&rsquo;s all. It&rsquo;s a
lie that you say to yourself. And it keeps you safe, dreaming. And what
is this, but the determination to be as you would make yourself. You
see? You, through thinking &hellip; you, through not being silent
&hellip; you through not engaging in the two-step at all, make of
yourself something unworthy of that which arises out of the two-step:
Awakening&mdash;Waking up to the truth, rediscovering who you Are,
rediscovering your Birthright and embodying it because you&rsquo;re not
resisting it in any way with arguments and lies.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God did not create His dwelling-place unworthy of Him.

God did not create &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; His dwelling-place, to be unworthy of Him. And if you believe
He cannot enter where He wills to be, you must be INTERFERING with His
Will.
</div>

You see? You see, it&rsquo;s not because you&rsquo;re not worthy of it,
but your interfering with your Father&rsquo;s Will, which is for you to
be sane, not suffering from insanity, being able to clearly experience
yourself as His Son, His Daughter&mdash;His direct expression in which
all that He is, is embodied fully.

That&rsquo;s what makes you a worthy dwelling place for Him. It&rsquo;s
not as though He had any choice, you know. There aren&rsquo;t
multiple dwelling places for Him. There are the places where He is
expressing Himself, called &ldquo;you&rdquo; and you &hellip; and you
&hellip; and you &hellip; and everyone.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not need the strength of willingness to come from YOU, but only
from HIS Will.
</div>

Now we&rsquo;re beginning to step onto a difficulty here, because you
want to play a part. You think you need to play a part. Your whole state
of existence as an independent entity has revolved around your
intelligence, your reasoning, your capacities, your definitions and that
and those therefore constitute the normal activity of an entity like
you.

And so, you think that in your process of Waking up, you&rsquo;re going
to continue to be the one authorizing the Awakening by taking certain
steps. And so, you&rsquo;re going to be willing to Wake up. And in the
process you will in all likelihood, create the definitions of what your
willingness means and where your willingness is going to take you. And
because you will have given some good definitions that you can believe,
you&rsquo;ll put yourself behind the effort. You&rsquo;ll give
permission to go forward. But all you&rsquo;re doing is fulfilling your
plan, your idea of what the two-step and what the awareness of holiness
will mean. You see?

And so you&rsquo;re stuck. You&rsquo;re stuck in the place where your
Birthright can&rsquo;t be experienced because you&rsquo;re not in a
state of listening&mdash;of attention.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant does not come from your little willingness alone. It is
always the result of your small willingness combined with the unlimited
power of God&rsquo;s Will. You have been wrong in thinking that it is
needful to PREPARE yourself for Him. It is impossible to make arrogant
preparations for holiness, and NOT believe that it is up to you to
establish the conditions for peace. GOD has established them. They do
not wait upon your willingness for what they are.
</div>

You see? Oh-h &hellip; so insulting! The more we go along, the less
there is for you to do and the more pejorative the words are that are
used to describe what you&rsquo;re doing when you&rsquo;re bringing your
willingness and not doing less, not doing nothing, not being still, not
just being the presence of attention. Whew! It is insulting and you know
it. Because when you actually, genuinely decide to reach out to the
Father, you become clearly aware that you&rsquo;re not comfortable with
what your joining with the Father will mean for you.

I mean, after all to say, &ldquo;Not my will be done, but Thine
&hellip;&rdquo; is insulting to someone who, through the practice of his
will becomes something Real. To abandon it, necessarily means that you
will become unreal. And that is what is frightening, that is what is
insulting.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is impossible &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; nevertheless &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to make arrogant preparations for holiness, and NOT believe
that it is up to you to establish the conditions for peace. GOD has
established them. They do not wait upon your willingness for what they
are. Your willingness is needed only to make it possible to TEACH you
what they are.
</div>

You know what? It&rsquo;s very simple. You do have apparently, the
capacity to think. You do apparently have the capacity to reason. And
you have the capacity to use logic. Those are not meaningless but they
are used by you to practice and establish meaninglessness. Now their use
is for one thing: Logic, thinking, reasoning are all available to you to
utilize when someone is telling you the truth that goes beyond your
present sense of things.

You read the scriptures, you read holy books, you read and embrace
spiritual ideas and they all get blended into reasonableness for you.
Now the purpose is for them to bring you to a place where you can
reasonably abandon control because reason used in relationship to what
you&rsquo;ve learned, what you&rsquo;ve been taught, tells you that God
is Love. It tells you that God is your Source. It tells you that when
you&rsquo;re joined with Him you are in your peace and you are in the
place of experiencing total fulfillment, not only apparently by
yourself, but with involvement with all of Creation and all of the
Brotherhood.

These things help you arrive at a point where you can say, &ldquo;Father
&hellip;&rdquo; you see, abandoning the independence &hellip;
&ldquo;Father, what is the truth here? Father, what is Your Perspective
on this? How do you see this part of the human condition as it truly Is,
being the Kingdom of Heaven that it actually Is, and my being the holy
Son of God that I actually Am? It is clear enough to me that the way I
have described things in my request of you, Father, I can dare to
abandon my control, my need for authority, and the need for an ego hit
if I&rsquo;m successful in exercising that authority and I am going to
shut up! I&rsquo;m going to let out a sigh &hellip; I&rsquo;m going to
release my tension and I&rsquo;m going to turn my attention to You with
devotion. And I will listen until I hear. Because I know you are waiting
for this exact moment where I desire to join with You again.&rdquo;

You see, that&rsquo;s the proper use of logic and thinking and
reasoning. To help you arrive at a point where you can conceive that
there is no vulnerability associated with coming back into your right
Mind as a result of joining with the Father to say, &ldquo;Father, how
do you see things? Show me what it&rsquo;s my Birthright to be
experiencing. Show me my holiness.&rdquo; You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you maintain you are unworthy of learning this, you are interfering
with the lesson by believing that you can make the LEARNER different.
</div>

You, the learner.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You did not make the learner, nor CAN you make him different.
</div>

The learner is the one you think you are when you don&rsquo;t know who
you Are. The learner is the one you think you are when you don&rsquo;t
know that you are the holy Son or Daughter of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You did not make the learner, nor CAN you make him different. Would you
first make a miracle yourself, and then expect one to be made FOR you?
</div>

Here&rsquo;s the simplicity of it:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOU merely ask the question. The answer is GIVEN.
</div>

It&rsquo;s a Gift.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Seek not to answer it, but merely RECEIVE the answer as it is given.
</div>

And you know that you will seek to answer it yourself. And if you
don&rsquo;t seek to answer it, you will after having asked, overwhelm
yourself with all the arguments of why you can&rsquo;t have the answer,
why you don&rsquo;t want the answer and why you&rsquo;re going to be
unwilling to receive it.

&ldquo;Oh, it&rsquo;s going to change my life too drastically! Oh, there
are so many things I want to do that, of course, when I&rsquo;m Awake,
I&rsquo;m not going to be able to do. Oh, I&rsquo;m not going to do it
because doing it doesn&rsquo;t respect me. I have to abandon
self-respect to do this. Oh, I have emergencies to take care of that
require my personal attention, my personal evaluation, and I must attend
to those before I can possibly take time to sit down, shut up, and
listen for what the answer might be &hellip;&rdquo; even though the
answer might be far superior and far more instantaneous than the one you
will come up with as a result of your own personal effort. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Seek not to answer it&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; even though you&rsquo;re likely to &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but merely RECEIVE the answer as it is given.
</div>

Remember, you don&rsquo;t know the answer. And the answer is going to
take you in a direction you haven&rsquo;t been in yet, because if you
had been in it, you would be Awake right now.

So I&rsquo;m sorry, there&rsquo;s nothing useful for you to utilize in
the process of Awakening, except whatever has helped you arrive at a
point of saying &ldquo;Thy Will, not mine be done. Father, I lean into
You on purpose and I will introduce nothing that will interfere with my
willingly falling into Your Arms and Your Support and Your Insight and
Your Perspective&rdquo; &hellip; and on and on.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In preparing for the holy instant, do not attempt to make yourself holy
to be ready to receive it.
</div>

Do you see how silly that is?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In preparing for the holy instant, do not attempt to make yourself holy
to be ready to receive it. That is but to confuse your role with
God&rsquo;s. Atonement cannot come to those who think that THEY must
first atone, but only to those who offer it nothing more than simple
willingness to make way for it.
</div>

To make way for it to present itself to you and by virtue of its
presentation, change you, cause learning to occur, because you
didn&rsquo;t interfere with the learning by introducing theories and
concepts or justifications or denials of it. You see? You see, the
simplicity of it is, you could say, found in the complete absence of a
need for you to do anything relative to it except to invite it. Whew!

You will find that one of the biggest arguments against it is, &ldquo;I
don&rsquo;t have time.&rdquo; &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t have time to be
quiet.&rdquo; &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t have time to listen.&rdquo; And
it&rsquo;s only after you have pursued your solutions and failing that
you finally arrive at a point where you&rsquo;ll say, &ldquo;I need to
sit down and be quiet. I need help. I can&rsquo;t do it by
myself,&rdquo; which means, &ldquo;I must not be the one who needs to be
involved in the correction of this problem. It&rsquo;s the Father, in
whose Presence and in my willingness to receive of Him I will find that
there is no problem to solve. It&rsquo;s disappeared. Correction has
apparently occurred.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Purification &hellip;
</div>

Did you ever think that purification would be a matter of cleansing your
mind about all of your thoughts, beliefs, concepts, definitions, that
purification is the filtering out of what doesn&rsquo;t belong in what
is to be a simple state of attention&mdash;not filled with thoughts or
ideas or concepts or definitions?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Purification is of God alone, and therefore for you. Rather than seek
to prepare yourself for Him, try to think thus:

"I who am host to God AM worthy of Him.  He Who established His
dwelling-place in me created it as    He would have it be.  It is not
needful that I make it ready for Him&hellip;&rdquo;
</div>

&hellip; let&rsquo;s hear that again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;It is not needful that I make it ready for Him, But only that I
do not interfere with His plan to restore to me my  own awareness of my
readiness, which is eternal.  I need add nothing to His plan.  But to
receive it, I must be willing not to substitute my own in place of it."
</div>

Beautifully simple and simply beautiful.

Now it should be easy to see the meaningfulness of this with reference
to the point at which you said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it
my way. Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it my way.&rdquo; In order to Wake
up you have to undo that.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;I need add nothing to His plan.  But to receive it, I must be
willing not to substitute my own in place of it."
</div>

The whole problem &hellip; the experience of the human
condition&mdash;sin, sickness, death, suffering&mdash;is the result of
your having substituted your own in place of the Father&rsquo;s Will.

It&rsquo;s so simple. And therefore, the correction is simple.

But through my talking and through your study of the Course and through
your study of other Spiritual works where truth is revealed, you are
able through reason, thinking and logic to arrive at a point where you
can dare not to substitute your own in place of His.

You&rsquo;re on your way out. You are on your way out of the illusion
that you&rsquo;re in something that never could have actually happened.
Never could the Kingdom of Heaven have been translated into the human
condition&mdash;a material world and universe&mdash;therefore it never
happened. But in your firm belief that it has, because you made the
definitions up, incorrect as they were, and you believe them and you
base your existence upon them &hellip; you&rsquo;re lost. You are
incapable of seeing the Kingdom of Heaven that you&rsquo;ve
misinterpreted. But you&rsquo;re on your way out. You&rsquo;re on your
way back into your sanity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;I need add nothing to His plan. But to receive it, I must be
willing not to substitute my own in place of it."

And that is all.
</div>

Four words &hellip; the biggest four words there are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And that is all. Add more, and you will merely TAKE AWAY the little that
is asked.
</div>

Because you&rsquo;ve switched back into being the authorizer,
you&rsquo;ve switched back to being on your own. You&rsquo;ve switched
back into the mindset that causes the Kingdom of Heaven to be seen as
the human condition and a material world and universe, even though the
Kingdom of Heaven hasn&rsquo;t changed.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember you made guilt, and that your plan for the escape from guilt
has been to bring Atonement TO it, and make salvation fearful.
</div>

Okay. I know some of you still will argue about that you made guilt, but
the moment you said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my way.
Father, I am getting a divorce. Father, I am turning away from You and
paying attention only to myself,&rdquo; two things came into the picture
&hellip; fear and guilt. Your decision to abandon the Father, to become
independent in your own right, created fear and guilt. That&rsquo;s just
the way it is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember you made guilt, and that your plan for the escape from guilt
has been to bring Atonement TO it, and make salvation fearful.
</div>

Why would that be? Well, if you&rsquo;re going to bring atonement to
your illusion, you know that atonement is going to invalidate your
illusion. It&rsquo;s going to invalidate you and you&rsquo;re going to
be faced with what you&rsquo;re faced with right now, which is the fear
that you&rsquo;re going to become meaningless and that you will never
again be able to be meaningful in anyway. And so that makes atonement
fearful. You see? And it&rsquo;s not true.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And it is only fear that you will add, if you prepare YOURSELF for love.
</div>

If you prepare yourself. You say: Prepare yourself for the holy instant.
Prepare yourself for holiness &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; prepare YOURSELF for love.
</div>

You know, there&rsquo;s a beautiful statement: &ldquo;Love inspires,
illumines, designates and leads the way.&rdquo; 2

Again: &ldquo;Love inspires, illumines, designates and leads the
way.&rdquo;

How can you prepare yourself for love? You need to be humble enough, to
be quiet enough so that inspiration can enter you, so that you might be
lifted up by the inspiration that love brings. You can&rsquo;t prepare
the inspiration for yourself that&rsquo;s going to lift you up. You
can&rsquo;t prepare for love. All you can do is become still and make
the invitation. Love waits for you to invite it in. When you let it in,
you feel inspired. And every one of you have had experiences of
inspiration brought by love that lifted you out of some situation or
condition and helped move you and lead you and support you on the way
out, with a peace that you couldn&rsquo;t possibly have brought into the
picture all by yourself.

So this is an easy way for you to understand that it is only fear that
you will add if you prepare yourself for love and what the alternative
is to let love disclose to you through inspiration what heals.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The preparation for the holy instant belongs to Him Who gives it.
</div>

Not him who receives it.  So if you are going to be prepared for the
holy instant that you are choosing for, then all you need to bring to
this event is joyful inquisitiveness: &ldquo;How is the Father, going to
prepare me for the holy instant?&rdquo; You see? To think that you have
to prepare yourself is to busy yourself with something that will only
delay the Father&rsquo;s preparation of you, which will occur when you
become still.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Release yourselves to Him Whose function is release.
</div>

It&rsquo;s a little repetitious, isn&rsquo;t it? It says, stop trying to
do things. You&rsquo;re not going to create the answer. You&rsquo;re not
going to bring the answer forth. You&rsquo;re not going to figure out a
way to be what you have never been before. But you have a means of
obtaining all of them. And it is by, you could say, saying,
&ldquo;Help!&rdquo; or &ldquo;Father, help me!&rdquo; or &ldquo;Father,
show me the way. Father, reveal the truth to me.&rdquo; or Holy Spirit
or Jesus. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Release yourselves to Him Whose function is release. Do not assume
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; take on &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; His function for Him. Give Him but what He asks, that you may
learn how little is your part, and how great is His.
</div>

Now here we are, we&rsquo;re going to address it directly:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is this that makes the holy instant so easy and so natural. You make
it difficult, because you insist that there must be more that you need
do. And it is very hard for you to realize that it is not personally
insulting that your contribution and the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s are so
extremely disproportionate. You are still convinced YOUR understanding
is a powerful contribution to the truth, and makes it what it is. And
Yet we have emphasized that you need understand nothing.
</div>

Just keeps hammering away.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Salvation is easy just BECAUSE it asks nothing that you cannot give
RIGHT NOW.
</div>

But it asks something that you&rsquo;re unwilling to give right now,
cause it&rsquo;s a sacrifice of you and your integrity. You know,
it&rsquo;s like going to a casting agent for a movie, &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t
you have at least a small bit part for me? Can I stand in the crowd in
the background almost out of sight? Cannot my presence add something to
the scene?&rdquo;

Thank God, it&rsquo;s not required. You don&rsquo;t have to be in the
movie. You don&rsquo;t have to ask for a place in the Kingdom of Heaven
because you already have a place.

And so it&rsquo;s when you shut up human will and say, &ldquo;Father,
what is the truth here?&rdquo; that the truth is revealed to you by the
Father&mdash;not by your preparation and not by your imagination. And in
the revelation of your place in the Kingdom of Heaven, in Reality that
is unalterable and eternal, you find that all the meaningfulness that
your Being could possibly have is yours and always has been yours, was
yours while you were imagining differently, before you decided to
genuinely engage in the two-step and abandon your will &hellip; your
willfulness.

This is absolutely beautiful &hellip; absolutely simple &hellip; and yet
it seems impossible.

You say, &ldquo;Well, your teachings, Jesus, have been around for
two-thousand-eleven years &hellip; hasn&rsquo;t happened yet. There have
been great spiritual teachers even before you and it hasn&rsquo;t
happened yet. It&rsquo;s completely unreasonable for me to embrace the
idea that it&rsquo;s possible for me, or that it&rsquo;s actually
possible for anyone. After all, in all of existence if it hasn&rsquo;t
happened yet, what justification is there for my believing that it can
and will?

Well, let me ask you this: What would have happened if Wilbur and
Orville Wright had said, &ldquo;You know, in all of existence no man has
ever flown, only the birds. Birds were meant to fly not man.
There&rsquo;s no way to do it.&rdquo; What if they used that argument:
That in all of time, in all of human existence no man ever got off the
ground, therefore it can&rsquo;t happen now.

I&rsquo;m telling you that it can happen. It&rsquo;s time for it to
happen. And you&rsquo;ve got to take a look and see just how much faith
and commitment you bring to your crazy thoughts, to your negative
thoughts, to your thoughts of what is possible and impossible. But
remember, what makes things seem possible and impossible to you are
simply the way you have linked together beliefs, ideas and
misunderstandings and some bits and pieces of truth. Your release from
it comes in your abandoning of what you have such great commitment to.

You know, many of you say, &ldquo;Well, there&rsquo;s no reason not to
have some new technological gadget. There&rsquo;s no reason to not have
a machine that can levitate us off the ground. There&rsquo;s no reason
not to explore new inventions.&rdquo; And you will go after those new
inventions with great vigor.

Well, I tell you what, be like Wilbur and Orville Wright and go after
something that&rsquo;s never happened before. Go after your holiness. Go
after the experience of your sanity, which means, go after the
experience of the Kingdom of Heaven that you&rsquo;re in the middle of
but not experiencing because you&rsquo;re so damn sure that your
definitions about matter and the way the universe works proves that
everything I&rsquo;m talking about can&rsquo;t possibly be true.

Stop arguing yourself into defeat. And dare to explore a little, dare to
be radical a little.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forget not that it has been your decision to make everything that IS
natural and easy for you impossible.
</div>

That&rsquo;s sanity. It&rsquo;s the truth that can release you quite
suddenly. It&rsquo;s very helpful.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forget not that it has been your decision to make everything that IS
natural and easy for you impossible. What you believe to be impossible
will BE, if God so wills it&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you can&rsquo;t just decide what can or cannot be and have it
be so.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you believe to be impossible will BE, if God so wills it, but you
will remain quite unaware of it. If you believe the holy instant is
difficult for you, it is because you have become the arbiter of what is
possible, and remain unwilling to give place to One Who KNOWS.
</div>

You see? Give place to one who knows. Yield &hellip; give up into &hellip; 
abandon authority for paying attention and letting something else fill your 
attention, something other than you fill your attention.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The whole belief in orders of difficulty in miracles is centered on
this.
</div>

What was it again?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you believe the holy instant is difficult for you, it is because you
have become the arbiter of what is possible, and remain unwilling
&hellip;

&hellip; remain unwilling to give place to One Who KNOWS.
</div>

The Father, the Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more than your
right Mind&mdash;your Guide or me.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The whole belief in orders of difficulty in miracles is centered on
this.
</div>

Your &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; unwilling to give place to One Who KNOWS.
</div>

And that&rsquo;s what causes order of difficulty in miracles.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everything God wills is not only possible&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everything God wills is not only possible, but has already HAPPENED. And
that is why the past has gone. It NEVER happened in reality.
</div>

All of the illusions never happened in Reality. All of the problems,
which cause you to say, &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t have time to practice the
holy instant,&rdquo; never happened.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It NEVER happened in reality. Only in your minds, which thought it did
&hellip;

Only in your minds, which thought it did, is its undoing needful.
</div>

You see? It&rsquo;s a little bit of misdirection that occurs. You see a
problem and you say, &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve got to attend to correcting that
problem.&rdquo; But the only thing that causes the problem to seem to be
real is a glitch in your mind. And if you want to correct the problem or
deal with it, you&rsquo;re going to have to let it go and attend to the
glitch that caused it to seem to be real. And caused it to seem to be
something that it was more important for you to give your attention to
than attending to that in your mind&mdash;the glitch. And attending to
the glitch is accomplished through the holy instant.

Now, this is the simplicity of it, this is the beauty of it. It also
seems to be the great impossibility of it and something which you
can&rsquo;t let go of your doubt about. But you have to persist. Like
Orville and Wilbur Wright, persist. It&rsquo;s the way Home.

I love you all. And I look forward to being with your next time.

[^1]: T18.4 The Little Willingness

