---
title: Feb 12, 2012
ref: "T18.5 The Happy Dream"
alink: "/acim/text/18/chap1805/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us
on the Internet.

As you begin to more consistently practice the holy instant, choosing to
join with the Father and no longer maintain your divorce from Him, no
longer maintain your independence, you are going to find yourselves
experiencing the fact that in the holy instant&mdash;in that joined
state of Mind&mdash;God&rsquo;s laws prevail.

God&rsquo;s laws disallow for anything unlike God. And the disallowing
of anything unlike God is therefore at the Hand of God, at the Hand of
the way things work, and not because of any power you personally have.

As you engage in the holy instant, irregularly, but nevertheless you
engage in it frequently, you&rsquo;re going to have experiences of the
correction of problems because of the fact that you have allowed
yourself to be in the place where God&rsquo;s laws prevail. And this is
going to cause you to find reason or justification for engaging in the
holy instant, in joining with the Father.

Now, you are going to prefer not to do your own thinking. You are going
to prefer not to engage your imagination as you go through your daily
affairs. And as a result, you will abandon the arena in which sin,
sickness and death occur. You will also abandon the arena in which you
as an authorizer seem to exist&mdash;you as a source of control.

You&rsquo;re going to find that by comparison with your movements in and
out of the holy instant, that to be alone with your own thoughts really
isn&rsquo;t satisfying. It&rsquo;s going to cause them to be something
you don&rsquo;t choose to indulge in anymore.

Now, this is not going to turn you into a monk, or a weird one of any
sort. I mean by that, someone behaving considerably at odds with
everyone else. But the fact that you will be more and more consistently
joining and saying, &ldquo;Father what is the truth here? Holy Spirit,
what is the truth here?&rdquo; you&rsquo;re going to find that the state
of being in the holy instant is a state of being in prayer &hellip;
constant prayer &hellip; &ldquo;Father what is the truth here?&rdquo;
and you listen and you grasp the Meaning and you naturally say,
&ldquo;Yes.&rdquo; And as I&rsquo;ve said many times, prayer is saying
&ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to God.

So, you&rsquo;re not going to be engaging in denying the world.
You&rsquo;re not going to be engaged in trying to get rid of or control
anything &ldquo;in the world.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s what you&rsquo;ve been
doing forever, relatively speaking. And you are going to find yourself
turning to the Father and staying in connection.

Waking up is best described as moving into a constant state of prayer.

There&rsquo;s another aspect to prayer. And that is, that you&rsquo;re
deferring authority away from yourself. Prayer is a state of humility. A
state in which there is no arrogance and therefore no fear, no guilt. I
want you to keep this in mind. Prayer is the state of Being when you
move out of the driver&rsquo;s seat. Isn&rsquo;t that wonderful?

Now, we&rsquo;re at the beginning of a new section entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Happy Dream*[^1]

Prepare you NOW for the undoing of what never was. If you already
understood the difference between truth and illusion, the Atonement
would have no meaning. The holy instant, your holy relationship, the
Holy Spirit&rsquo;s teaching, and all the means by which salvation is
accomplished, would have no purpose.

If you already understood the difference between truth and
illusion&hellip;

For they are all but aspects of the plan to change your dreams of fear
to happy dreams, from which you waken easily to knowledge.
</div>

How do you shift to happy dreams? By abandoning your independence,
practicing the holy instant, asking of God, what the truth is, what is
needed, and listening. And listening until you hear, listening until you
manage to accidentally let go of control. And I&rsquo;m going to say
accidentally because the only way you will let go of control is with
help. And when you get the help, it will happen not at your hand and you
will call that, &ldquo;accidental.&rdquo;

It&rsquo;s important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Put yourself not in charge of this, for you cannot distinguish between
advance and retreat.
</div>

It&rsquo;s bad news. You don&rsquo;t know the difference between truth
and illusion and you cannot distinguish between advance and retreat. But
again, it&rsquo;s only when you dare to realize this and accept it as
true that you will begin to actually reach out to Something beyond
whatever wonderful capacities you have thought you&rsquo;ve had.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Some of your greatest advances you have judged as failures, and some of
your deepest retreats you have evaluated as success.
</div>

You don&rsquo;t know the difference. And as long as you think you do,
you will bring your best resources, your best independent resources into
play instead of shutting up, instead of going into the silence within to
the altar within you which is where you naturally find yourself when
you&rsquo;ve chosen for your peace, when you choose for the holy instant
and you say, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here? Father, I need help.
Holy Spirit, help me.&rdquo;

Your reluctance to engage in this lies in the fact that you still have
confidence in your own personal private independent capacities, which
you, at your hand, have nurtured and developed until they have seemed to
bring a semblance of dignity, integrity and structure to this
independent one that you are.

Again, I want to remind you that no matter how well things are going for
you, if you&rsquo;re still experiencing sin, sickness and death, you are
not experiencing success. You are not experiencing truth because you are
denying the fact that God is all, in all. And therefore what is
happening is happening at God&rsquo;s Hand because it&rsquo;s the
Movement of Creation which your choice to participate in the holy
instant moves you into the access of.

It&rsquo;s your Birthright to be that which observes, is conscious of,
the Movements God engages in as the act of Creation&mdash;the forever
Movement of Creation. As you move back into that state of attention, the
happy dream is the result. The comprehension of truth infills you and
gives you peace and allows you to move in harmony with what God&rsquo;s
Will is bringing forth in the movements that you had before, called the
world and universe that started from a &ldquo;Big Bang&rdquo; and is
constituted of the definitions you have adopted either by your own
creation or by being taught by others what it is, without ever shutting
up and saying, &ldquo;In spite of what I&rsquo;ve been taught Father, in
spite of what seems intelligent to me, Father, what is the truth here? I
think it&rsquo;s a material world and universe. I want to see and
experience the Kingdom of Heaven which You have told me it Is, which it
has been revealed to me is the truth about it. I do not know how to
shift from my definitions and the teachings I&rsquo;ve adopted, into
what to me seems to be an utterly uncontrollable, original experience of
what you, Father, are Creating. Help me because I do not know how to do
it.&rdquo;

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Never approach the holy instant after YOU have tried to remove all fear
and hatred from your mind.
</div>

See, you don&rsquo;t even have to do that. In fact you had better not do
that.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Never approach the holy instant after YOU have tried to remove all fear
and hatred from your mind. That is ITS function.
</div>

That is the function of the holy instant. And &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Never attempt to overlook your guilt BEFORE you ask the Holy
Spirit&rsquo;s help. That is HIS function. Your part is only to offer
Him a little willingness to &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; LET Him remove all fear and hatred, and to BE forgiven.
</div>

This is very confusing to the mind that tries to order itself in order
to have integrity and some confidence that one is not totally
vulnerable, because it says do something that it tells you, you
can&rsquo;t do. Or it tells you to do something that you&rsquo;re not
inclined to do because you&rsquo;re used to doing things for yourself.
And here it&rsquo;s saying you must turn to Something that is in charge,
that is not you! That&rsquo;s confusing.

If you dare to become still, if you dare to practice the holy instant,
it puts you in a place where you&rsquo;re not in control&mdash;a place
where no order will enter until you let the Father speak, until you let
the Holy Spirit address you and inspire you and illumine the truth to
you, and then guide you in Its practice so that you are behaving in what
had been a material world and universe, in a new way, which ultimately
you will discover is the way you behave in the Kingdom of Heaven. And by
virtue of following the Guidance that you get, so that your practice of
yielding is more and more complete, you will find your mind transformed
and you will find yourself having the Kingdom of Heaven illuminated to
you.

It&rsquo;s a Gift. It&rsquo;s a Gift you can&rsquo;t control into your
experience but it is a Gift you can let into your experience. Letting is
what is confusing to everyone. Doing is what everyone has great
confidence in.

If you&rsquo;re doing doesn&rsquo;t happen until after you have let
inspiration illuminate the truth, then your doing will be in perfect
harmony with Reality, in perfect harmony with the Kingdom of Heaven that
you&rsquo;re misinterpreting at this moment to be something else. And as
a result then of your being, acting, doing in harmony with the Kingdom
of Heaven, all of your feedback will confirm your divinity and will
confirm the Kingdom of Heaven and will confirm the fact that you have
been successfully leaving the orphanage, the place of your so-called
independence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
On your little faith&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that you put forth in practicing the two-step, engaging in the
holy instant, .

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
On your little faith, joined with his understanding, He will build your
part in the Atonement, and make sure you will fulfill it easily.
</div>

When you turn all of your decisions over to the Holy Spirit and you act
on the basis of the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s decisions which He reveals to
you, you find yourself more and more in harmony with Reality.
That&rsquo;s the way it works. And as the result of turning your
decisions over to the Holy Spirit, you, because the Holy Spirit is
nothing more than your right Mind, find the cohesiveness and the
intelligence and the divine order of your Being once again
illuminated&mdash;lit up in you so that it doesn&rsquo;t escape your
attention&mdash;and you are transformed.

All of this because you have chosen to engage in a holy relationship and
to honor that relationship.

Again, what is a holy relationship? It&rsquo;s a relationship you have
with someone or even something where God is not left out in the process.
In other words, to once again be specifically clear: The holy
relationship is the relationship you have with someone where you have
not looked to them first to gather the facts of their being, but have
instead done the two-step, shut up, and in the silence asked,
&ldquo;Father what is the truth about this one?&rdquo; so that what is
revealed to you by your joining with your Father about your Brother or
Sister, becomes your new perception of them which automatically, as
I&rsquo;ve said before, causes your behavior toward them to reflect
their holiness, to reflect what has been revealed to you, rather than
anything you might have believed about them or anything they may have
presented to you as being the truth about them.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
On your little faith, joined with His understanding, HE will build your
part in the Atonement, and make sure that you fulfill it easily. And
with Him, YOU &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in partnership &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will build a ladder planted in the solid rock of faith, and
rising even to Heaven. Nor will you use it to ascend to Heaven alone.
</div>

Now, we&rsquo;re coming up to a part here that might help you see why
you ought to not try to figure this out yourself, not try to plan it and
not try to direct it. But rather with total awareness that you
don&rsquo;t know what it&rsquo;s going to take or how it&rsquo;s going
to happen, turn to the Father and say, &ldquo;Lead me &hellip; lead
me.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Through your holy relationship, reborn and blessed in every holy instant
which you do not arrange&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; got it?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; blessed in every holy instant which you do not arrange,
thousands will rise to Heaven with you. Can YOU plan for this?
</div>

How could you plan for it when you don&rsquo;t even know that&rsquo;s
what will happen? Would you possibly conceive that that is something for
you to pay attention for or that that will happen as a result of your
practicing the holy instant? No.

You might think this is a private little journey of you back into your
right Mind which obviously is right with you where you are because
it&rsquo;s one, &ldquo;You know, it&rsquo;s relatively private, except
I&rsquo;m going to use my partner in the holy relationship as the
justification for seeking what the Father&rsquo;s Will is.&rdquo; In
that way it&rsquo;s not private. But would you have thought that
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; reborn and blessed in every holy instant which you do not
arrange, thousands will rise to Heaven with you?
</div>

No.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can YOU Plan for this? Or could you prepare YOURSELVES for such a
function? Yet it is possible, because God wills it.
</div>

That&rsquo;s why you want to know what God&rsquo;s Will is. That&rsquo;s
why you want to be willing to abandon the way you think things work and
how you think things ought to work, because you will think too small.
You will think, as a practice of defense, in a way that couldn&rsquo;t
possibly be overwhelming or miraculous for you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it is possible, because God wills it. Nor will He change His
Mind about it.
</div>

Thank God &hellip; because that means your way Home is securely
established. And ultimately you will find that you&rsquo;ve been Home
all along. And that&rsquo;s why the way back to the conscious awareness
of it is unchangeable and secure and dependable.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The means and purpose BOTH belong to Him.
</div>

See? They don&rsquo;t belong to you &hellip; thank God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The means and purpose BOTH belong to Him. You have accepted one; . .
</div>

&hellip; the purpose. Remember &hellip; what&rsquo;s the purpose here?
The goal is to access your holiness. Holiness is the goal. So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have accepted one; . .
</div>

&hellip; the purpose &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the other will be provided.
</div>

Out of your hands. But your hands are there to receive.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A purpose such as this&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the goal of holiness &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; without the means, is inconceivable. He will provide the means
to ANYONE who shares His purpose.
</div>

So if the goal is holiness, if that&rsquo;s the purpose, and you share
that purpose with the Father, with the Holy Spirit, with your Brother or
Sister&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He will provide the means &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it&rsquo;s absolute. He will not change His Mind about it. But
you&rsquo;re going to have to mean it when you say, &ldquo;Father, Thy
Will be done, not mine.&rdquo; You&rsquo;re going to need to mean it.
Which means you&rsquo;re going to have to listen for His Voice, for His
Meanings without having an ace up your sleeve, without having a backup
plan. And just letting yourself &hellip; abandon yourself into whatever
His answer is going to be&mdash;lean into Him without reservation.

And just do it. Do it throughout your day, lean into His understanding,
when you&rsquo;re driving on the road, when you&rsquo;re feeding your
cat, when you&rsquo;re cleaning your house, when you&rsquo;re at the
office. Want to know of holiness about everything. It doesn&rsquo;t have
to be a formal process which you&rsquo;re in control
of&mdash;&ldquo;I&rsquo;m going to sit down. I&rsquo;m going to meditate
for twenty minutes and I&rsquo;m going to do it twice a day. No,
I&rsquo;m going to do it three times a day.&rdquo; Great organization,
huh?

No! Do it on the spur of the moment. Do it wherever you are. Do it with
whatever is going on&mdash;say, &ldquo;I want to experience the holiness
of this, that or the other thing &hellip; of this moment.&rdquo; You
see? It will become a devotion, because you would much rather know of
the holiness of everything than the suffering that is otherwise
experienced.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Happy dreams come true&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; hear that?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Happy dreams come true, NOT because they are dreams, but only because
they are HAPPY. And so they must be loving.
</div>

Joy is inseparable from love. Happiness is an expression of love.
Happiness is a form of love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Their message &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the messages of happy dreams &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Their message is, "Thy Will be done," and not, "I want it otherwise."
</div>

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Their message is, "Thy Will be done," and not, "I want it otherwise."
</div>

You see? When you got a divorce from the Father and began to function
independently, everything was based on the statement, &ldquo;I want it
otherwise.&rdquo; Otherwise you would have stayed with the Father and
said, "Thy Will be done."

So, the happy dream is going to cost you something. The happy dream is
going to cost you the right to say, &ldquo;I want it otherwise.&rdquo;
And you&rsquo;re going to replace it with, &ldquo;Thy Will be
done.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s the way you &hellip; what? That&rsquo;s the
way you annul the divorce!

Moving into an attitude of &ldquo;Thy Will be done,&rdquo; constitutes a
joining &hellip; a joining that breaks the independence. And it
expresses an honoring of that to which you&rsquo;re giving the right for
His Will to be done for you in your life.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The alignment of means and purpose is an undertaking impossible for you
to understand.
</div>

And that&rsquo;s okay. It&rsquo;s not the end of the world for you not
to be able to understand it, because it&rsquo;s going to be done for
you. You don&rsquo;t have to be able to understand it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not even realize you HAVE accepted the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s
purpose as your own, and you would merely bring unholy means to its
accomplishment.
</div>

Now, what does that mean? You don&rsquo;t realize you have accepted the
Holy Spirit&rsquo;s purpose as your own? The simple fact is that in
spite of your insistence of imagining yourself as independent,
you&rsquo;ve never stopped being the Son or Daughter of God. Your will
has never been at odds with the Father&mdash;impossible.

And so, the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s purpose for you to remember and access
your holiness is your will as well already. It&rsquo;s just that you are
so persistent in attempting to be on your own&mdash;independent. So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not even realize you HAVE accepted the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s
purpose &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; for holiness &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as your own, and &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; I&rsquo;m going to add, because of that &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you would merely bring unholy means to its accomplishment.
</div>

That&rsquo;s what the human condition and your life as you&rsquo;re
currently experiencing it is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The little faith it needed to change the purpose &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; from independent, creativity and authority to the goal of
holiness &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The little faith it needed to change the purpose is all that is required
to receive the means and USE them.
</div>

And so when you have decided not to engage with anyone without bringing
God into the picture, you&rsquo;ve set the scene &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to receive the means and USE them.
</div>

Receive the means as direct communication from the Father, the Holy
Spirit, your Guide or me. It&rsquo;s like tipping the first domino, the
rest of them come down without effort on your part. You bring the little
willingness&mdash;the domino falls.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is no dream to love your brother as yourself. Nor is your holy
relationship a dream. All that remains of dreams within it is that it is
still a SPECIAL relationship.
</div>

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All that remains of dreams within it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; within the holy relationship &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is that it is still a SPECIAL relationship.
</div>

You still seem to be orphans negotiating or maybe allowing for an
annulment of your divorce from your Father to occur.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet it is very useful to the Holy Spirit&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; this special relationship that you still have.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet it is very useful to the Holy Spirit, Who HAS a special function
here. It will become the happy dream through which He can spread joy to
thousands on thousands who believe that love is fear, not happiness. Let
Him fulfill the function that He gave to your relationship &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; this very all encompassing function.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let Him fulfill the function that He gave to your relationship by
accepting it FOR you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; still letting it be done &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and nothing will be wanting that would make of it what He would
have it be.
</div>

Again &hellip; the practice of the holy instant is the tipping over of
the first domino. And incredibly more happens as a result than you could
imagine that contributes to the Awakening of all the brothers who are
sleeping. Because when you and another withdraw investment in mutual
agreements&mdash;mutual agreements that keep the illusion going&mdash;it
weakens everyone else&rsquo;s capacity to maintain the illusion. And I
will tell you, that those who are very close to letting go of their
control, will feel themselves pushed over the brink, out of the grasp of
control and the desire for it and find transformation spontaneously
happening with them.

Now, there&rsquo;s more that you have not dreamed of, but this is enough
to warrant your practice&mdash;your more diligent, your more faithful
practice&mdash;of the holy instant, because not only does it move you
into the arena where God&rsquo;s laws prevail and transform you
correcting illusions that dog your heels, it also blesses the one
you&rsquo;re in a holy relationship with and it blesses infinitely.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you feel the holiness of your relationship is threatened by
anything&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you know, difficulty or strife between you and this one
you&rsquo;re in a holy relationship with&mdash;this one you&rsquo;re
being in relationship without neglecting to bring the Father with you
into it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you feel the holiness of your relationship is threatened by
anything, stop instantly and offer the Holy Spirit your willingness, IN
SPITE of fear, to let Him exchange this instant &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; of fear &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for the holy one which you would rather have.
</div>

I want you to consider that as you practice the holy instant more
consistently, as you turn your decisions over to the Holy Spirit more
consistently, what you love is going to shift, what you value is going
to shift. And that means that your obsession with doing things yourself
is going to lessen, because you&rsquo;re really finding it more
meaningful to engage in the holy instant and have the blessing that
undoes sin, disease and death and provides a promise of your eternal
life, not as off in the future but as very close. And therefore, because
it&rsquo;s very close, you desire and feel in harmony with further
abandoning your authority and saying, &ldquo;Thy Will be done,&rdquo; to
the Father&mdash;practicing the holy instant.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will never fail in this. But forget not that your relationship
is one, and so it must be that whatever threatens the peace of one is an
equal threat to the other. The power of joining and its blessing lie in
the fact that it is now impossible for either of you to experience fear
alone, or to attempt to deal with it alone.
</div>

You see? You&rsquo;ve got to realize that you&rsquo;re in this
partnership. And in that partnership life is shared, meaning is shared,
ignorance is shared and so on.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Never believe that this is necessary, or even possible.
</div>

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The power of joining and its blessing lie in the fact that it is now
impossible for either of you to experience fear alone, or to attempt to
deal with it alone. Never believe that this is necessary, or even
possible.
</div>

Meaning, even possible now that you&rsquo;ve joined in the holy
relationship.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet just as this is impossible, so is it equally impossible that the
holy instant come to either of you WITHOUT the other.
</div>

You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And it will come to BOTH at the request of either.
</div>

Now, during this coming week I want you to review this because this is
very important. You haven&rsquo;t realized how complete the union is in
the holy relationship. And because of that, you both have the capacity
to help each other move forward.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whichever is saner at the time when the threat is perceived should
remember how deep is his indebtedness to the other, and how much
gratitude is due him, and be glad that he can pay his debt by bringing
happiness to both.
</div>

Because of the commitment to the holy relationship, when there&rsquo;s a
challenge, whichever one has the greater stability to remember to not
use his or her mind for ego purposes, for purposes of control or
judgment, and chooses right at the moment of threat or disturbance to
say, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here? . .&rdquo; you see &hellip;
don&rsquo;t even engage in reaction, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth
here?&rdquo; &hellip; you and your partner will be blessed. You will be
blessed. Why? Well, the fact that you personally, neither one of you can
do anything to change the situation and the fact that that&rsquo;s
accepted and one of you says, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth
here?&rdquo; &hellip; one of you joins in the holy instant. This lifts
you both out. Why? Because in the request, the Holy Spirit responds and
does for the two of you what you can&rsquo;t do for yourself.

And so when there is threat, when there is dissonance, whatever, and
you&rsquo;re incline to react emotionally, catch yourself, engage in the
holy instant. Simply abandon the dynamics of what are disturbing and
say, &ldquo;Father, Holy Spirit, what is the truth here? Help! I do not
know how to do it and I understand now that it&rsquo;s not my job to do
it personally, but for me to let You do it for us. This I ask
for.&rdquo;

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Which ever &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I&rsquo;m going to add, of you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is saner at the time when the threat is perceived should
remember how deep is his indebtedness to the other, and how much
gratitude is due him, and be glad that he can pay his debt by bringing
happiness to both. Let him remember this, and say:

"I desire this holy instant for myself That I may share it with my
brother, whom I love.  It is not possible that I can have it without
him, or he without me.  Yet it is wholly possible for us to share it
NOW.  And so I choose this instant as the one to offer to the Holy
Spirit, That His blessing may descend on us, and keep us BOTH in peace."
</div>

Now, that&rsquo;s a prayer, isn&rsquo;t it. And that meets the criteria
of what a prayer is, as I said earlier, saying, &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; to
God.

Let this coming week be as full of prayer as possible. And be alert,
because you know what the opposite of prayer feels like and so
you&rsquo;re able to recognize when you&rsquo;re not putting your mind
to its true use, or to a good use and engage immediately in this prayer.

Let it be a prayerful, joined, transformational week.

I love you. And I look forward to being with all of you next time.

[^1]: T18.5 The Happy Dream

