---
title: Feb 18, 2012
ref: "T18.6 Dreams and the Body"
alink: "/acim/text/18/chap1806/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Two different titles for this new section:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Dreams and the Body* AND *Beyond the Body*[^1]
</div>

&ldquo;Dreams and the Body&rdquo; better express the topic&mdash;the
subject of this next section. &ldquo;Beyond the Body&rdquo; allows you
to hear what you want to hear rather than impelling you in the direction
of hearing the truth. Beyond the body makes it sound as though, when you
move beyond the body, you leave the body behind. It becomes
non-existent. It becomes nothing. It becomes useless, meaningless and so
on.

You could just as easily say, behind the body. What&rsquo;s behind the
body? What gives rise to the body? &hellip; or you could say, underneath
or underlying the body. Those words are a little bit better than beyond.
The general belief is that you die and you escape the body and that
therefore is probably the spiritually correct definition of
&ldquo;Beyond the Body.&rdquo; And it&rsquo;s not body. Body is what you
call, &ldquo;form.&rdquo; It is what I call the visibility and
tangibility of ideas in the Mind of God or the Movement of which
constitutes Creation. You see? It&rsquo;s the visibility and tangibility
of ideas&mdash;Creation is. The Kingdom of Heaven is the visibility and
tangibility of the Movement of Creation, which is another way of saying,
the Movement of the Mind of God.

Now this past week I shared with Paul a phrase, which I want to share
with everyone else now: The Movement of Creation is written on your
Mind. It&rsquo;s not written on space and time. It&rsquo;s written on
your Mind. It is illuminated in your conscious awareness.

Now before you said, &ldquo;Father I&rsquo;d rather do it myself.
Father, I&rsquo;d rather give the definitions,&rdquo; you experienced
the Kingdom of Heaven, you experienced Creation as a conscious
experience of Being that was infinite because you are the Creation of
the Father Who withheld nothing of what He was or is from you. And
therefore, your conscious awareness is as infinite as the infinite Mind
of God. And before you got your divorce, you experienced it as a
conscious experience. You experienced everything&mdash;the things, the
visibility and tangibility of Creation&mdash;as constituted of the
substance of Spirit. Not matter.

And it wasn&rsquo;t until you got the divorce&mdash;reversed the
situation, became god yourself&mdash;by saying, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m going
to take over Your job, Father, and I&rsquo;m going to be the definer of
everything,&rdquo; when you did that, the experience of Spirit as the
substance of ideas, became matter&mdash;the substance of the physical
universe governed not by the laws of God, but by the laws of physics
which you and everyone else proceeded to make up. You see?

Now that is what everyone is in the process of disengaging from. That
interpretation placed upon that which was already perfectly the Kingdom
of Heaven in which all form&mdash;the body of a tree, the body of a car,
we&rsquo;ll say, the body of your hand and so on&mdash;the body of
everything was Spirit and the things were the things of Creation. The
things were the presence of the Father as Mind. And you as the direct
expression of the infinite presence of Mind, had the infinite presence
of Mind that was not insane. And you grasped, you felt, you were deeply
imbued with the consciousness of truth&mdash;the truth about everything.

And you knew that you were the place, so to speak, in which Creation was
occurring because you are the Mind in which all of the ideas were being
experienced. There was no confusion. And it&rsquo;s the return to that
that all of you are engaged in.

Now, going to the book:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is nothing outside you. That is what you must ultimately learn,
for it is the realization that the Kingdom of Heaven &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; Reality &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is restored to you. For God created only this, and He did not
depart from it, nor leave it separate from Himself.
</div>

You see? The Mind of God moved. And God experienced the Movement. And
God saw the Movement and called it &ldquo;Good,&rdquo; recognized it to
be Himself&mdash;Self-recognition, wholeness, completeness. And in that
completeness, you Were &hellip; all of His Sons and Daughters of God
Were, if I may put it that way.

Now God created only this and He did not depart from it. He didn&rsquo;t
alter it, He didn&rsquo;t play with it and change it around and
rearrange it and treat it as though it were something separate from Him,
which was manipulatable. You see?  He saw everything that He had made
and behold: Verily, verily, it was God&mdash;it was Himself. And He
experienced the truth of it. And you don&rsquo;t play with truth. There
is no need. Truth is to be felt and experienced and I&rsquo;m going to
say, infinitely, eternally enjoyed.

And because God is the Movement of Mind, Creation is ever unfolding, if
I may put it that way. And the truth of it is experienced by God and
you, because God and you are the Movement of God along with everything
else in Creation. And the truth of it is there to be experienced. And
it&rsquo;s your Birthright &hellip; I&rsquo;m going to say, your duty,
your obligation, your Birthright to be experiencing it.

When I say it&rsquo;s your duty and obligation, it only has meaning if
you&rsquo;re in the process of abandoning other definitions that
you&rsquo;ve given everything and coming back into your right Mind.

And so, because of what you divinely Are, in spite of the fact that
you&rsquo;re ignoring who you divinely Are, you do have an internal
obligation and motivation and impulse to come back into your right Mind
and experience the truth about you and about everything which is, there
is nothing outside you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Kingdom of Heaven &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; Creation in Movement &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is the dwelling-place of the Son of God, who left not his
Father&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; even though he&rsquo;s pretended that he has, and has convinced
himself that he has and fights for the right to see the Kingdom of
Heaven&mdash;the ideas of God, the substance of which is Spirit&mdash;as
the material universe governed by the laws of matter, physics, which
have not the eternal properties of Life and Love, but of sin, sickness
and death.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Kingdom of Heaven is the dwelling-place of the Son of God, who left
not his Father, and dwells not apart from Him.
</div>

&hellip; except in his imagination.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Heaven is not a place &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in time and space &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; nor a condition.
</div>

But what is important to understand is, that although Heaven is not a
place, it doesn&rsquo;t mean that everything you&rsquo;re experiencing
which seems to be in a place, is not the Kingdom of Heaven. It&rsquo;s
some sort of illusion. No &hellip; the illusion is the tweak or bias
that you&rsquo;ve applied to the Kingdom of Heaven by virtue of
insisting upon looking at it independently and making up the definitions
yourself.  And that causes the Kingdom of Heaven to seem to be different
from and in opposition to the Kingdom of Heaven. Very simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Kingdom of Heaven is &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; merely an awareness of perfect Oneness, and the knowledge that
there is nothing else; nothing outside this Oneness, and nothing else
within.
</div>

You see? What&rsquo;s within the Kingdom of Heaven must be only that
which is the Mind of God moving as the infinite conscious experience of
Being. That is the Movement of Creation and that is the Kingdom of
Heaven. Nothing else can be in It. And when you have all imagined things
and created definitions, it would seem that you have brought those into
the Kingdom of Heaven, but you haven&rsquo;t because nothing else can be
there actually, except what God is Being, except what the infinite
Movement of the infinite Mind of God is Being. That&rsquo;s all that can
be in It. And there&rsquo;s nothing else outside of that even though you
seem to think you have created things on your own and you know what
things are without checking with the Father, without the benefit of
Revelation, insight and ultimate healing.

And you&rsquo;re crazy. You are experiencing everything falsely.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What could God give but knowledge of Himself?
</div>

In the creation of you, what could be brought into play other than the
constituting Presence of God? Nothing. God can give nothing but
knowledge of Himself, manifestation of Himself, evidence of Himself, the
visibility and tangibility of Himself. And God is Spirit. And God is
Mind. And God is Love. And God is Truth. And God is Principle. And God
is Soul. And God is Spirit.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What could God give but knowledge of Himself?
</div>

You could say that God has invested Himself in His Creation. But it
doesn&rsquo;t mean that like a potter, He has invested Himself in the
creation of a particular pot&mdash;something different from
Him&mdash;that He can fire in a kiln and put on display and sell.  You
see? God gives knowledge of Himself. God expresses Himself and God is
the Expression. God is what is in the embodiment. God is what is behind
the embodiment. God is what underlies the embodiment. God is what is
beyond the embodiment. But again, that doesn&rsquo;t feel the same does
it?

Beyond sounds like separate. You want to know what comes before the
embodiment. And that&rsquo;s the subject. That means that the embodiment
is not the subject. But it doesn&rsquo;t make the embodiment unreal.
That&rsquo;s key. That&rsquo;s important.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The belief that you could give and GET something else, something OUTSIDE
yourself, has cost you the awareness of Heaven&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; You see? The awareness of Heaven was something you had when you
weren&rsquo;t imagining that there was some place else to be &hellip; or
something else to be there that you could initiate&mdash;bring into
existence&mdash;and make real. And you had it all &hellip; all of what
the Father was Being at the moment when you decided to get a divorce,
was your conscious experience of Being. And you were sane and you were
Awake and you were fulfilling your function as that which acknowledges
the truth about Creation, feels the truth about it, knows the truth
about it and finds no occasion for challenging it.

But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The belief that you could give and GET something else, something OUTSIDE
yourself, has cost you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your sanity &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has cost you the awareness of Heaven&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and suddenly, you&rsquo;re in a material universe where sin,
sickness and death, where deterioration and decay, I believe it&rsquo;s
called, &ldquo;entropy&rdquo; occurs. It&rsquo;s an inevitable and
fundamental element of life. NO, IT&rsquo;S NOT!

So, it &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has cost you the awareness of Heaven, and the loss of your
identity.
</div>

Why? Because you said, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m Fatherless. I&rsquo;m an orphan.
I choose not to acknowledge a Source beyond or different from myself as
I am experiencing myself without my sanity.&rdquo;

You gave up your identity. By becoming Fatherless, you became
unidentifiable. You had no heritage, you had no Birthright, being
Sourceless, you became as meaningless as a lamp that&rsquo;s not plugged
into the socket.  So it cost you the awareness of Heaven and the loss of
your identity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And you have done a stranger thing than you yet realize. You have
displaced your guilt to your bodies from your minds.
</div>

Think about it. Think about what I&rsquo;ve shared with you about what
Creation actually is, and what the Kingdom of Heaven actually is, and
what it&rsquo;s your function to engage in relative to it. In other
words, to be the conscious awareness of it, as what it actually is,
which, if I may put it this way, keeps you synchronous with your Source
so that nothing is entering into your conscious experience except the
truth about what the Father is Being so that you&rsquo;re fulfilling
your function of acknowledging and glorifying God. And in that, you are
being co-creators with God &hellip; something it is impossible for you
to be as an independent agent.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet a body CANNOT be guilty, for it can do nothing of itself.
</div>

Not because it&rsquo;s not real, but because that&rsquo;s not its
purpose. Every idea of God, whether it&rsquo;s what you call your body
or your hand or a tree or any aspect of Creation, it&rsquo;s real but it
does not have the capacity to do anything of itself, to become guilty
for. All it can be is the presence of what God is manifesting right
there and be the present expression of it, an expression that does
indeed constitute a communication&mdash;a conveyance of
Meaning&mdash;because the all- knowing Mind represented by every single
one in the Brotherhood and Sisterhood as well as every created thing,
that infinite communication and receipt of, I&rsquo;m going to say,
Knowledge, but the experience of Knowing the truth about each thing,
that is your function. That makes what you&rsquo;re experiencing real.

But when you got your divorce, when you said, &ldquo;I want to make up
the rules, I want to define everything,&rdquo; you did what? You brought
into this experience fear and the guilt. And the fear and the guilt are
intolerable. And so, what you did was you displaced it on Creation,
which no longer seems like Creation to you. Now suddenly, it&rsquo;s
&ldquo;matter&rdquo; governed by the laws of physics, where entropy
dominates, where sin, disease and death are inevitable. You see? Awful.
You don&rsquo;t think you did that.

Why do you live in fear? Why are you not surprised if there are
accidents? Why are you not surprised when a tree dies? Why are you not
surprised when a hurricane seems to cause destruction? Because you think
you live in a hostile world, a hostile universe, which for some reason
has enough positive life-affirming characteristics to continue in spite
of the conflict. You see?

And so there&rsquo;s always something potentially worth being frightened
about or concerned about &hellip; or uneasy about. And so you live with
tension and ulcers and high blood pressure. And why doesn&rsquo;t that
surprise you? Because you have made everything that&rsquo;s not you, the
object of your guilt.  &ldquo;It&rdquo; is what you blame.
&ldquo;It&rdquo; is the problem. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet a body CANNOT be guilty, for it can do nothing of itself.
</div>

Um…really? Well what about all the pressures that cause the magma to
rise and finally burst out on a volcano and come down on Pompeii and
other cities and destroy and kill?

Yeah, you&rsquo;re right &hellip; something&rsquo;s wrong. And
it&rsquo;s time to right the wrong. It&rsquo;s time to have the shift in
consciousness where you are no longer a mind inside a body looking out
at a world and universe that&rsquo;s outside the body to the place where
you&rsquo;re recognizing that &ldquo;there is nothing outside
you.&rdquo;

Now, obviously that can&rsquo;t mean there&rsquo;s nothing outside your
body. The definition of &ldquo;you&rdquo; must be something different.
There is nothing outside the conscious awareness of Being that you Are
even though you are misunderstanding and misdefining your Mind. You say
it&rsquo;s the result of nerve-endings and synapsis and the movement of
electrical currents through a hunk of matter called &ldquo;a
brain&rdquo; and that&rsquo;s why you think and that&rsquo;s why you are
conscious. Well, you might as well say that everything you&rsquo;re
experiencing is being created by a hunk of matter inside a head. And
there still isn&rsquo;t any reality &ldquo;out there.&rdquo;

It&rsquo;s all a physical illusion caused by electricity moving through
meat. I mean, really!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet a body CANNOT be guilty, for it can do nothing of itself. You who
think you hate your bodies &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; wait a minute, I hear someone saying, &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t hate
my body.&rdquo; Well, are you afraid of what it will do if you go into a
ward of a hospital where there are highly communicable diseases present?
Oh-h, would you do that? Would you stand out in the middle of a freeway
in a heavily trafficked lane? No, because you&rsquo;re afraid of what
might happen to your body and what it might do&mdash;it might cease to
function &hellip; this physical thing that it is.

You think that makes you happy? You think that your fear of death is not
a manifestation of the hate you have for your body? Your distrust of it
is hateful. It&rsquo;s not love. It&rsquo;s not harmonizing. It
doesn&rsquo;t lower your blood pressure, even from a physical
standpoint. It increases it. It&rsquo;s unhealthy.

If you fear your body, if you fear what it may do when you get old, then
you&rsquo;re not happy with your body, you&rsquo;re just ignoring your
distress with it. But the fact is, that you do hate your body and you
will hate it until you come to that point where you&rsquo;re willing to
make that shift of consciousness from body identification, world
identification, to Mind identification &hellip; and my movement of my
hand indicating the head and using the word &ldquo;Mind&rdquo; is not
good. It doesn&rsquo;t represent the truth. Conscious awareness is a
definition-less, boundary-less experience in which infinity is
experienced.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who think you hate your bodies deceive yourselves. You hate your
MINDS, for guilt has entered into them, and they would remain separate,
which they cannot do.
</div>

Your mind would remain separate from your partner&rsquo;s mind. Your
mind would remain separate from my mind. Your mind would stay separate
from the Mind of God. That&rsquo;s the goal. Those are the ground rules.
That&rsquo;s the starting point and ending point. And that&rsquo;s why
it&rsquo;s insanity. It&rsquo;s insanity because it&rsquo;s the
ridiculous idea that the Mind of God can be confused and insane. And
it&rsquo;s impossible. And it&rsquo;s that belief what we&rsquo;re
engaged in undoing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Minds ARE joined;
</div>

We&rsquo;ve said before, there are no private thoughts.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Minds ARE joined; bodies are not. Only by assigning to the mind the
properties of the body does separation seem to be possible.
</div>

&ldquo;Well, my mind is functioning inside my brain and your mind is
functioning inside your brain. And you take your brain with you to New
York and I take my brain with me to San Francisco. They&rsquo;re not in
the same place.&rdquo;

So the characteristics of the body are used to define the
characteristics of the mind and seem to make it separate. And yet many
of you have had one or more experiences in the quietness, knowing what
was going on with someone else or being aware of a need when there was
no physical communication of the need. And you were able to respond in a
way that saved a life or made a significant difference.

All of you have experienced at times the boundarylessness of minds and
the inseparability in mind of you from your Brothers and Sisters.
It&rsquo;s a simple fact the definition applied to the mind that starts
with the current definitions of the body&mdash;although you swear by
them&mdash;are false.

Dare to look at it. Don&rsquo;t be bound by an illusion. Don&rsquo;t be
committed to an illusion.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Minds ARE joined; bodies are not. Only by assigning to the mind the
properties of the body does separation seem to be possible. And it is
MIND that seems to be fragmented and private and alone.
</div>

Unless 0ccasionally you dare to pray and get an answer.  But we&rsquo;ll
leave it like this for now.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
it is MIND that seems to be fragmented and private and alone. Its
guilt&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; again, that which came into existence when you got your divorce
and decided to be independent.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Its guilt, which KEEPS it separate, is projected to the body, which
suffers and dies because it is attacked to hold the separation in the
mind, and let it NOT KNOW its identity. Mind cannot attack, but it CAN
make fantasies and direct the body to act them out.
</div>

And it can create fantasies that interprets on occasion that the body is
acting them out when it isn&rsquo;t, or that it will act out by picking
up a virus, a very virulent virus and suffer and die very quickly.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet it is never what the body does that seems to satisfy. Unless the
mind believes the body is actually acting out its fantasies, it will
attack the body by increasing the projection of its guilt upon it.
</div>

You see? I&rsquo;m going to tell you something: If you were to begin to
look at your world and you were willing to consider that your world is
innocent and is actually the Kingdom of Heaven reflecting the nature and
character and Being of God, you would be withdrawing your judgment, you
would be withdrawing your projection of guilt upon it. And what, the
world would change? No, you would find that the communication of all the
ideas of God that are rendered visible and tangible in Creation, would
be communicated to you, because their communication is &hellip; their
purpose is to communicate their reason for Being, to communicate their
Meaning, because nothing in the Kingdom of Heaven is held separate in
any way from any other part of Creation.

Now that&rsquo;s what would happen. But that would undo the dream
wouldn&rsquo;t it? And it&rsquo;s still very important for you to
believe that you have autonomy, that you can be an independent agent,
that you can create, that you can control. That&rsquo;s very important
to you.

And so, if you were actually to begin to be willing to look at your
world and find it innocent of the things you imagined it to be and that
you were confident that it would do, your ego would become very
frightened and would increase the definitions of guilt applied to your
world. And you would find your world &hellip; you would find yourself
experiencing greater fear about your world. You would find the world to
be less dependable than it had been before and therefore more
frightening, and that would keep you busy defending yourself to maintain
your independence. You see? So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Unless the mind believes the body is actually acting out its fantasies,
it will attack the body by increasing the projection of its guilt upon
it.
</div>

Understand this. Because as you engage in the process of Awakening, as
you engage in the holy instant and you begin to acknowledge the world
and universe as innocent&mdash;as not being governed by laws of physics,
where entropy is an absolute given&mdash;you will find yourself being
challenged. You will find the ego trying to frighten you more, to
project the false characterization of you that you&rsquo;re employing.

I&rsquo;m sorry, this is me Paul, I lost it &hellip;

Raj: The point is: Don&rsquo;t be surprised as you begin to practice the
holy instant to find that the fear of the world in you will increase.
Why? Because it&rsquo;s your way of not having to abandon your
authority, your integrity that comes from a well developed integrity and
authority of you in your own right.

Making the world scarier causes you to withdraw your willingness to see
it as innocent, to see it as though it might actually be the Kingdom of
Heaven, that it actually might be constituted of the substance of Spirit
instead of the substance of matter and that instead of being governed by
the laws of physics, it&rsquo;s where God&rsquo;s laws prevail and only
God&rsquo;s laws prevail, because only God is what is present in the
Movement of Creation, including you.

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Unless the mind believes the body is actually acting out its fantasies,
it will attack the body by increasing the projection of its guilt upon
it.
</div>

Again, to be clear: The way it projects guilt upon it is by making it
seem more fearful to you, more threatening to you, therefore, calling
for you to engage in defense against some part of the Kingdom of Heaven
which is intent upon and only capable of communicating its divine
Meaning to all of Creation including you&mdash;to be received, not
rejected by you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In this&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; increasing projecting of guilt on the world &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the mind is clearly delusional. It cannot attack, but it
maintains it CAN&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what mind? Well, the mind of the orphan, the independent mind
that has denied its Source and lost its recognition of its union with
God and its function of co-creating with God. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In this, the mind is clearly delusional. It cannot attack, but it
maintains it CAN, and uses what it does to hurt the body to PROVE it
can.
</div>

Now that doesn&rsquo;t just mean to hurt the body that you call your
arms, legs, torso, head, feet and so on, it means that it uses what it
does to hurt all of Creation, hurt it by misunderstanding it,
misdefining it and judging it according to the incorrect definition,
ending up hating it, denying its meaning, relegating it to illusion when
it&rsquo;s something actual to be embraced and experienced as what it
truly Is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The mind cannot attack, but it CAN deceive itself &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; through imagination.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And this is all it does when it believes it has attacked the body.
</div>

&hellip; which you call your body or the world by incorrectly defining
it and defending itself against the world.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It can project its guilt, but it will not LOSE it through projection.
And though it clearly can misperceive the function of the body&hellip;
</div>

Again, any part of Creation, any aspect of the visibility and
tangibility of Creation, although &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it clearly can misperceive the function of the body, it cannot
change its function from what the Holy Spirit establishes it to be.
</div>

The use of imagination changes nothing, and does not alter your right
Mind&rsquo;s capacity to connect with you and illumine in you your true
awareness of what everything really Is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The body was not made by love.
</div>

What body? The body seen by the one who got the divorce. It was made
through the lens of fear and guilt. And so the definitions always
involved some element of negativity that called for self-protection
against it. You see?  The definitions given were not made by love, were
not made by joining with the Father to see what Reality is really being
right there where you are insisting a material universe is functioning.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The body was not made by love. Yet love does not condemn it, and can use
it lovingly, respecting what the Son of God has made, and using it to
save him from illusions.
</div>

Why can the body be used that way? Because it&rsquo;s really the
visibility and tangibility of God and so it can be used while
you&rsquo;re still entertaining false definitions of it to keep your
attention where transformation of your mind can occur and, as a result,
because you&rsquo;re looking at the Kingdom of Heaven, it ceases to be
the material universe governed by the laws of matter and begins to
behave like Spirit.

Again, the key is to be looking where the transformation in your mind is
going to occur, to keep it where the Kingdom of Heaven is. It&rsquo;s
not appropriate for you to look beyond It. It&rsquo;s not appropriate
for you to rise above It. It&rsquo;s important for you to look at where
Reality is, so that the Movement of the Holy Spirit can cause you to be
paying attention, as that which you had determined was mortal and
fearsome and dangerous shifts into a conscious experience of the
substance of Spirit&mdash;the nature of which is love and the function
of which is to communicate to you its divinity&mdash;can register with
you as you Wake up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you not have the instruments of separation re-interpreted as means
for salvation, and used for purposes of love? Would you not welcome and
support the shift from fantasies of vengeance to release from them? Your
perception of the body . .
</div>

&hellip; the definitions you&rsquo;ve given to it &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; can clearly be sick, but project not this upon the body.
</div>

Project this not upon the visibility and tangibility of the ideas of God
that are the Kingdom of Heaven.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For your wish to make destructive what cannot destroy can have no real
effect at all. And what God created is only what He would have it be,
being His Will. You CANNOT make His Will destructive. You can make
fantasies in which your will conflicts with His, but that is all.
</div>

Four more key words:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but that is all.
</div>

You see, this is very significant, these are key points. And remember,
the very first sentence:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is NOTHING outside you.
</div>

That&rsquo;s what the point is. That&rsquo;s the shift that needs to be
made from body identification, meaning all forms shifting from body
identification to Mind identification in which You as Mind&mdash;the
Presence of God&mdash;stop translating the substance of Spirit and
therefore, of all Creation into matter separate from you, at odds with
you, dangerous to you.

As you go through this next week I encourage you, as many times during
the day as you remember to do it and have fun with it, look at a thing
and say, &ldquo;Oh, that&rsquo;s not matter &hellip; Oh, that&rsquo;s
not matter &hellip; Oh, that&rsquo;s the substance of Spirit. Oh,
that&rsquo;s an idea &hellip; even if I touch it and it feels solid,
that is an experience of an idea. That is a Mind experience, not a body
experience. And it&rsquo;s the experience of an idea felt by Mind and
not a table felt by a finger&mdash;matter out there.&rdquo;

Have fun with this, this week and as I said, do it as frequently as you
remember to do it. And let it be fun even if it seems nonsensical to
you, because that&rsquo;s the way you will begin to make a shift so that
when you look at something, when you see something, it will not be your
automatic assumption that is what you always thought it was &hellip; and
that it is something you need to get beyond.

I love you. And I hope you have a really interesting and wonderful time
engaging in this practice this coming week. It&rsquo;s not all supposed
to be negative hard work. A lift, an inspiration, can cause it to be
much easier to abandon a misperception, a false belief&hellip; a
commitment to ignorance.

Okay.

[^1]: T18.6 Dreams and the Body

