---
title: Mar 24, 2012
ref: T18.6 Dreams and the Body
alink: "/acim/text/18/chap1806/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

I&rsquo;m going to be a little repetitious tonight to bring the point
home that we&rsquo;re talking about. And we need to bring the point home
because the subject has to do with the release from dreams&mdash;the
release from illusions. And it has to do with the way everyone keeps
themselves dreaming&mdash;keeps themselves from Waking up.

This section is somewhat easily misunderstood and if it succeeds in not
being understood it can greatly delay Awakening because one&rsquo;s
attention will be in the wrong place.

So let&rsquo;s go back to the beginning: In the beginning, God. And in
the beginning, God moved. And the movement was Creation. And Creation
was infinite &hellip; absolutely unbounded, as unbounded as the Mind
that moved&mdash;that constituted Creation&mdash;God&rsquo;s Mind.

And you and all of Creation were the expression of this Mind, this
infinite Mind that is God. And the infinity, the infiniteness of It was
an absolutely ever-present total experience of every aspect of Creation,
not just you and your Brothers and Sisters, but all creatures and all
forms and let us say, every leaf on a tree and every blade of grass and
every star. Everything embodied the Mind of God. The rocks were
conscious. The tree and leaves were conscious. The creatures were
conscious. You were conscious. And that consciousness was unseparated.
It was whole, all inclusive, so that every aspect of Creation was
experiencing every other aspect of Creation without interference.

And as a result, the Love that God is, the Spirit that God is, the Life
that God is, was magnified, was the Allness, was the totality and was
the infinite focus of Being conscious.

Now, as we have discussed, there came a point which the Bible refers to
as &ldquo;The Fall,&rdquo;[^1] there came a point where two Sons or
Daughters of God discussed the possibility&mdash;an interesting play of
the mind&mdash;they discussed the possibility of giving everything that
God had Created, different definitions. Almost like a game &hellip;
&ldquo;Wouldn&rsquo;t it be interesting to call a skunk, a horse?
Wouldn&rsquo;t it be interesting to say that a tree should be like a
sheep and give birth to lambs? Wouldn&rsquo;t it be interesting to be
utterly creative?&rdquo;

And the two of them decided to do this. They made a mutual agreement to
think at odds with the natural function of the Mind of God which was
instilled in them as their very Being. And so, in effect, they decided
by mutual agreement and decision to stand opposed to the Meanings
already established.

And as we&rsquo;ve discussed, when that decision to become divorced from
God, when that happened, something totally unexpected happened: They
found that they were no longer experiencing the infinite conscious
awareness of Creation and their infinite connectedness with every aspect
of Creation. And they found themselves to be quite separate, quite tiny
in comparison to the totality of the universe&mdash;of Creation.

And something else was present that hadn&rsquo;t been: Fear…FEAR. And
they knew they had done something wrong. And guilt immediately came into
the picture.  But they were steadfast in their determination to be
independent. And so they began to determine that life was about
overcoming the fear and the guilt. That it wasn&rsquo;t wrong for them
to be independent obviously, because they were being able to do it. They
simply had to learn what the trick was to experience their peace and the
infinite harmony of Being once again while they were making up the
definitions.

Now, fear and guilt brought up a determination to overcome them, placing
them in their experience as enemies, as something that was threatening
to them that they needed to protect themselves against. But what could
they use to protect themselves?

Well, this body that they were experiencing, it was the only tool
available to them to exert force or coercion. And so their
determination&mdash;and here is the key point&mdash;their determination
to remain independent of the Father was to be accomplished by the use
that they put their bodies to which was for the purpose of self-defense.

The body is the lynch-pin in whatever stability can be brought forth
regarding being independent and vulnerable. The body misinterpreted by
means of giving it definitions that God did not give it, caused it to
become the single element which inhibited them from going back Home.

Now mind you, it wasn&rsquo;t the body that kept them from Waking up.
And today with every one of you, it is not the body that keeps you from
Waking up, that keeps you from experiencing Reality. It&rsquo;s the use
you put it to through the use of imagination &hellip; it&rsquo;s the use
you put it to through imagination.

Therefore, the simplicity of everything is, that if you want to Wake up,
you have to abandon imagination and specifically, you have to abandon
the imaginations that you have applied to your body in giving it
definitions that were never present in the Movement of Creation that
your Father engaged in by Being &hellip; by simply Being.

And so it&rsquo;s very important. It is very important not to come to
the conclusion that the body is an illusion. Because you see, if
you&rsquo;re going to Wake up, you&rsquo;ve got to do something more
than just discount it as an illusion. You have to engage your body for
purposes other than the ones you&rsquo;ve been using. You must stop
using your body as the means of defense to secure your invulnerability
against a chaotic and polarized universe and polarized entities whether
they are animals or whether they are Brothers or Sisters.

If you don&rsquo;t understand this, you will not put forth the effort
necessary to learn something new and to begin to behave in a new way
relative to your body and in the use you put it to.

You see, part of the problem as we&rsquo;ve discussed is, that not only
are you afraid of your Brothers and Sisters because of the definitions
you&rsquo;ve applied to them and the confidences you have in your own
personal private interpretations of your Brothers and Sisters, you also
have definitions about your body which are as polarized as the ones
you&rsquo;ve applied to everything else.

And so you fantasize that your body can be against you, that because it
is not real, or because it is just a material organism, you can&rsquo;t
trust it. You must be afraid of it. You must defend yourself against it.
You must be on guard and all of this because you&rsquo;ve made up
imaginary stories about your body and you&rsquo;re reacting to those
stories instead of your body. You&rsquo;re having no direct connection
with your body, you&rsquo;re having a direct connection with your mind
and your fantasy and your great confidence in your imaginations. And if
you don&rsquo;t stop that, you will not Wake up.

Well, if you are going to stop that, if you are going to stop relying
upon the definitions you&rsquo;ve applied to your body, and you&rsquo;re
going to begin to look at it with a willingness to see God there, to see
the evidence of all of the characteristics of God there, such as
eternality, such as harmony, such as perfection, if you&rsquo;re not
going to do that, then you&rsquo;re going to stay stuck.  And the
fantastic thing is that all that&rsquo;s necessary to experience release
from it is to stop using your imagination and start looking at your body
and your world with an invitation made to God to uncover to you once
again your natural Birthright to experience all of Creation as the
Kingdom of Heaven. That&rsquo;s all.  But you must do it.

Now, going into the book.[^2]

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is insane to use the body as the scapegoat for guilt, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see? You feel guilty because you&rsquo;ve denied your
Father, you&rsquo;ve denied your Source. You&rsquo;ve turned yourself
into an orphan, you have no connection with the vitality of Life
itself&mdash;the Presence of God. And then you use your body to convey
guilt to your Brothers and Sisters. And you also use your body as a
means of hurting yourself. And I don&rsquo;t need to go into that.  You
all know that that happens and how it happens. So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is insane to use the body as the scapegoat for guilt, directing its attack
and blaming it for what you wished it to do. It is IMPOSSIBLE to act out
fantasies.
</div>

Why? Because what isn&rsquo;t real, what is imaginary can&rsquo;t be
demonstrated&mdash;can&rsquo;t be rendered visible. It can only be
formulated in the mind, held to and as a result of that imaginary
process, making yourself miserable. Or holding another guilty and making
him miserable, not because you&rsquo;re connected with him, but because
you&rsquo;re connected with your picture of him which you are projecting
upon him and then challenging or correcting or harming. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is IMPOSSIBLE to act out fantasies.
</div>

They must forever remain nefarious mental insinuations that never become
something.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For it is still the FANTASIES you want, and they have nothing to do with what
the body does. IT &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the body &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; does not dream of them, and they but make it
</div>

&hellip; the body &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
a liability where it could be an asset.
</div>

Now here&rsquo;s the thing: If you determine for yourselves that the
body is an illusion, you will never have the experience of it being an
asset. And yet that is exactly what needs to happen. Because in the
recognition of it as an asset, there is an acknowledgement of value and
an acknowledgement of value is, no matter how subtle it is, an
expression of Love. And now you&rsquo;re turning the tide, you&rsquo;re
shifting the frame of reference you&rsquo;re using and your changing
your behavior mentally. And that opens the door for God&rsquo;s
Perspective to infill you.

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
IT &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the body &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; does not dream of them, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; fantasies &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and they but make it a liability where it could be an asset. For
fantasies have made your body your "enemy," weak, vulnerable and treacherous,
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; Oh yeah, you may not think about it much because it&rsquo;s too
unpleasant.  But you are afraid that one day it will kill you. One day
it will just [snaps fingers] stop functioning and there you&rsquo;ll
be&mdash;gone&mdash;or some other illness or injury or accident will
cause it to create problems for you.

So, your imaginations, your &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; fantasies have made your body your "enemy," weak, vulnerable and
treacherous, worthy of the hate which you invest in it.
</div>

We&rsquo;ve talked before about the fact that the word,
&ldquo;hate&rdquo; is quite apropos and I&rsquo;m not going to repeat
myself tonight.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How has this served you? You have IDENTIFIED with this thing you hate, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, the body you see which is the definition you
made up about it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have IDENTIFIED with this thing you hate, the instrument of vengeance and
the perceived source of your guilt. You have done this to a thing that has no
meaning, proclaiming it to be the dwelling-place of the Son of God, and turning
it against him.
</div>

You have done this thing, you have done this, turned the divine part of
Creation, &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; You have done this to a thing that has no meaning.
</div>

So, you haven&rsquo;t actually done it to something that is a divine
part of Creation, you have done this to what you&rsquo;ve ended up with
as a result of the definitions you&rsquo;ve applied to it. And that has
no meaning. The body you perceive has no meaning. The body you have
created as a result of fear and guilt has no meaning. That definition
has been overlaid upon something that does: The visibility and
tangibility of your individuality. And your individuality is the
Presence of God expressed and expressing interminably eternally.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have done this to a thing that has no meaning, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your definition of it &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; , proclaiming it to be the dwelling-place of the Son of God, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you. You exist in your body. Of course you&rsquo;re not
thinking of yourself as the Son of God. But in effect, that&rsquo;s what
the attempt was &hellip; to turn something meaningless, a false, a fake,
a confused definition to be the dwelling place of the Son of God and
turning it against him. Your definitions of your body hold it to be
something that can function at odds with you and sooner or later it
will! What is the saying? &ldquo;There&rsquo;s nothing sure but death
and taxes.&rdquo; The termination of your body, it&rsquo;s acting in a
manner that terminates your existence is something you&rsquo;ve created
by an imagination and a definition. It hasn&rsquo;t turned your body
into that. But it has caused you to be absolutely confident in the
termination of your life because of what the body is and how it works.

Now it doesn&rsquo;t hurt for me to be bold and frank about this. And it
doesn&rsquo;t hurt you to take a look at it because if you take a look
at it squarely, you can see the nonsensicalness of it. You can see that
indeed you have justification for learning something and changing the
way you behave, especially when doing it is going to cause you to Wake
up. It&rsquo;s going to cause you to let that Mind be in you which is
your right Mind which is presently being called &ldquo;The Holy
Spirit&rdquo; while you dally with a tiny sense of mind making all these
very creative decisions that result in blocking you entirely from coming
back into your right Mind.  

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the body you have imagined &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; This is the host of God that YOU have made.
</div>

Your body is where God is Present expressing Himself as You&mdash;it is
the host of God. It truly is &hellip; divinely is. But the host of God
that you have made is the one that is bound to die and thus be the
ultimate source of the failure of You to be successfully independent.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the host of God that YOU have made. And neither God nor His most holy
Son &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you…you…you…you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; can enter an abode which harbors hate, and where you have sown the seeds
of vengeance, violence and death. This thing you made to serve your guilt
stands between you and other minds.
</div>

&hellip; of all of the Brotherhood, of every aspect of Creation which is
the conscious Expression of God embodying or being fully conscious, able
to communicate It&rsquo;s infinite holiness to everyone and capable of
experiencing the holiness of all the rest of Creation as It&rsquo;s
expressed.

But:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This thing you made &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; this material body that can become sick and die &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you made to serve your guilt [it] stands between you and other minds.
</div>

You see? When you said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my
way,&rdquo; you decided to be private, not sharing Reality.

Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This thing you made to serve your guilt stands between you and other minds. The
minds ARE joined, &hellip;
</div>

You see? In spite of the fact that you have used guilt to stand between
you and other minds, the minds ARE joined. The imaginary attempts that
you engage in don&rsquo;t change Reality at all.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The minds ARE joined, but you do not identify with them.
</div>

&ldquo;No, I&rsquo;d rather see it my way. Charlie, I&rsquo;d rather see
it my way. You can tell me your way if you want to, but I&rsquo;m not
going to be able to agree with you. And I may be willing to make some
adjustments so we can get along, but I&rsquo;m never going to agree with
you. I&rsquo;m never going to share with you one hundred percent.&rdquo;
You see? Privacy is absolutely essential and it&rsquo;s maintained as
though it were.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The minds ARE joined, but you do not identify with them. You see yourself
locked in a separate prison, removed and unreachable, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; course that&rsquo;s your protection, being unreachable. If they
can&rsquo;t reach you they can&rsquo;t hurt you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; incapable of reaching out as being reached. You hate this prison you
have made, and would destroy it. But you would not escape from it, leaving it
unharmed, without your guilt upon it.
</div>

You need the body as a defense. And you&rsquo;re not about to give it
up, because you&rsquo;re not about to become defenseless. And
you&rsquo;re not about to become defenseless because you&rsquo;re
afraid. And yet as we keep looking at this, it becomes clearer and
clearer that being afraid &hellip; that the fear and the guilt are not
part of Creation. They&rsquo;re not actual. They are that which says to
you, &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t separate yourself any further from the Father,
because if you do it&rsquo;s going to be uncomfortable.&rdquo;
It&rsquo;s your sanity saying, &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t proceed any further.
You are going to create for yourself a confused and illusory experience
of the Kingdom of Heaven in which you can become lost, so preoccupied
with self-defense against this fear and guilt that aren&rsquo;t even
real, that you neglect to do the one all important thing. And that is:
To realize that the fear and guilt are meaningless.

You should write that down: Fear and Guilt are meaningless.

If you will consider that, you will find yourself beginning to have the
courage to not respond to that which seems fearful, and which seems
inseparable from guilt. The fear and the guilt will immobilize you in
terms of your Awakening, in terms of your learning something and
beginning to be in a new way that releases you.

Fear and guilt are meaningless. No if&rsquo;s, and&rsquo;s or
but&rsquo;s! Because fear and guilt are meaningless you can afford to
set down the things that seem so fearful, and which you feel guilty
enough about that you don&rsquo;t think you deserve escape from them
&hellip; and give your attention to other things, like for instance,
praying: &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here? What is the truth that
my actions of defense against what I&rsquo;m afraid of, cover up and
cause me not to see, and keep me from seeing?&rdquo;

This is a key learning: Fear and guilt are meaningless. If they are
meaningless, they do not need to be dealt with, reacted to, distracted
by.  This flies right in the face of the conditioning of your
imaginations. And if you attempt to practice it, it can seem to instill
greater fear. But it is essential to engage in abandoning fear and
guilt. It is essential. It&rsquo;s the act which initiates release from
bondage.

So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You hate this prison you have made, and would destroy it. But you would not
escape from it, leaving it unharmed, without your guilt upon it.

Yet only thus CAN you escape.
</div>

You see? That&rsquo;s what we&rsquo;ve just been saying. The only means
of escape from the bondage of mortality is to start using your body in a
new way&mdash;defining it as something divine, that which renders
visible the Presence of God called You.  Embodying the holiness of God
and therefore the holiness of You and where It&rsquo;s every action
blesses everything rather than cursing it with fear and guilt so as to
distract you from releasing yourself from responding to fear and guilt
and letting it be the motivation of your life.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Yet] only thus CAN you escape. The home of vengeance is not yours; &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; although you imagined it up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The home of vengeance is not yours; the place you set aside to house your hate
is not a prison, but an illusion of &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; of YOURSELF.
</div>

You see? A definition you have created about yourself. &ldquo;I am a
body. I am not free. I am a mortal. I will die. And in between now and
the time I die I will from time to time become sick and weak and there
will be other times where I will become so upset from my polarization
and my fear and guilt that I will act out harmful behavior against my
Brother and Sister. I don&rsquo;t want to do it, but there&rsquo;s no
way out of it.&rdquo; You see?

Man, what a story line and what an amazing thing to believe it, and not
believe what I&rsquo;m saying and not believe what it says in the
Course.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The body is a limit imposed on &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; listen to this &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; The body is a limit imposed [upon] the universal communication which is
an eternal property of mind.
</div>

The body you made up. The definitions of it that you&rsquo;re giving it and holding
it to and holding yourself to and killing yourself with&mdash;seemingly &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is a limit imposed on &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the universal communication which is an eternal property of mind.
</div>

Remember? I said that every aspect of Creation, every leaf, every rock,
everything is conscious. And every single conscious awareness if I may
put it that way, is absolutely in full communication with every other
aspect of Creation. And what is the communication that It&rsquo;s there
to share? It&rsquo;s there to share Its meaning. It&rsquo;s there to
share what It Is, the Presence of God that It Is. You see?

The body as you&rsquo;ve defined it is a limit. You&rsquo;ve created a
tiny circumference to something, which is an Idea in the Mind of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The body is a limit imposed on the universal communication which is an eternal
property of mind. But the communication is INTERNAL.
</div>

I said a long time ago: The most direct route to your fellowman is
through the center of your Being &hellip; the most direct route to your
fellowman is right through the center of your Being&mdash;in Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Mind reaches to ITSELF. It does not go OUT.
</div>

Remember? This Section entitled: Dreams and the Body, began with these five
words:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is NOTHING outside you.

Within itself &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it has no limits, and there is nothing outside it. It encompasses you
entirely; you within it, and it within you.
</div>

What is it? Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Mind reaches to ITSELF.
</div>

That is the means of communication.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It does not go OUT. Within itself it has no limits, and there is nothing
outside it. It encompasses you entirely; you within it, and it within you.
There is nothing else, anywhere or ever.
</div>

If that&rsquo;s the case, if that&rsquo;s the nature of experiencing
Reality, you can see how foolish it is to continue to give a
mean-spirited negative definition to your body which results in your
never being able to come back into your right Mind as long as
you&rsquo;re committed to the use of your body as self-defense because
you are treating fear and guilt as though they are meaningful.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The body &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as you&rsquo;re experiencing it as a result of the definitions
you&rsquo;re applying to it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The body is outside you, and but SEEMS to surround you, shutting you off from
others, and keeping you apart from them. It is not there.
</div>

You see? That does not mean that the visibility and tangibility of your
individuality isn&rsquo;t there. It means that the body that you have
imagined and that you&rsquo;re governing your every action toward it on
the basis of, isn&rsquo;t there.  It is a fantasy. And as we&rsquo;ve
said, fantasies cannot be acted out. You cannot manifest a fantasy. When
you believe you have, you are deluded. And if it is a serious enough
delusion you&rsquo;re put in a mental institution.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There IS no barrier between God and His Son, nor can His Son be separated from
himself except in illusions. This is not his reality, though he believes it is.
</div>

This is not your reality, though you believe it is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet this could only be if God were wrong.
</div>

So here&rsquo;s the simple logic.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God would have had to create differently, and to have separated Himself from
His Son to make this possible.
</div>

And of course, you can see the impossibility of that.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He would have had to create different things, and to establish different ORDERS
of reality, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; much the way you have &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; only SOME of which were love. Yet love must be forever like itself,
changeless forever, and forever without alternative.
</div>

What&rsquo;s the communication? What&rsquo;s the divine communication?
It&rsquo;s the expression of love, which gains its aliveness from your
willingness to share yourself uninhibitedly, unprotectedly,
uncalculatedly. The minute you make the gift of you, minus any form of
self-protection, it is an expression of love that becomes
illuminated&mdash;universal illumination&mdash;that everyone rejoices in
experiencing and everything feels.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And so it is. You cannot put a barrier around yourself because God placed none
between Himself and you.
</div>

Part of the learning and the change of behavior in you is not only
abandoning the honoring of guilt and fear and treating it as though it
were meaningful, it is that in the absence of communicating fear and
guilt, you begin to communicate love. You approach your fellowman as
though he is a holy Son of God and you expect to see the evidence of it.
Why? Because you&rsquo;re not about to spend one moment in your
imagination creating a definition&mdash;a mean-spirited
definition&mdash;of him. And in the absence of that, you are going to be
the Presence of Love.

This is so important. It is the key to Awakening. Be with this and let
it infill you and let it inspire you. Let it move you to change. Let it
cause learning to occur, so that you find yourself in a place you were
not before and so the past isn&rsquo;t being repeated.

I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: Genesis 3:1
[^2]: T18.6 Dreams and the Body

