---
title: Mar 31, 2012
ref: T18.6 Dreams and the Body
alink: "/acim/text/18/chap1806/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who’s joining us on the Internet.

You know, whenever there is development, whenever something new comes along
that replaces something old that came prior to it, whatever was characteristic
of the old tends to be carried over and become part of the new in this way:
When the automobile was first invented, it replaced a carriage drawn by horses
of one sort or another. And so, when the automobile came along it was called
what? The horseless carriage. And in fact its design was very similar to
a horse-drawn carriage, it’s just that it had a motor instead of a horse to
draw it.

Now as time passed, the horseless carriage began to be seen as an entity in its
own right, you might say, an automobile that did not refer back to what came
before it.

Now the reason I’m mentioning this is, that we could have made this teaching
perhaps more interesting and more palatable, more stimulating, more inviting,
if it were something that stood in advance of where you were and helped you
become more, something that you weren’t before. And in fact, many “New Age”
teachings, many metaphysical teachings do present you—man, woman, mankind—as
a creature developing or, I’m going to say, as a spiritual entity developing
&hellip; much like the theories and the origin of the species by Darwin, where the
species developed and slowly became more than it was before: More intelligent,
more functional, more dominant, and so on.

But you see, if you are just a spiritual entity developing, spiritualizing
itself, developing so as to become more God-like than it was before, bringing
out more of your potential than you had before, if we adopt that kind of
theory, then you have no promise of success, you just have hope of a positive
future because the context that is being used to consider it, suggests
a progressive developmental movement of being.

Now many of you, because of your prior associations, prior concepts, the things
you’ve learned, the things that were taught to you, approach the Course as
though it is here to help you spiritualize yourself more. And it’s not. And
you must understand that it’s not.

Now, I’ve used a saying many times. It’s this: You are neither behind the
point of perfection nor advancing toward it. You are at that point and must
understand yourself therefrom. You see? You must understand yourself from the
standpoint of your being already perfect, not moving toward perfection, not
developing. You see? Either you are the Son or Daughter of God, either you
are perfect or you’re not. But there’s no becoming perfect.

And you know what? You’re lucky. It’s fortunate that you can’t become perfect
because it means that the experience of perfection is available to you without
your having to earn it, without your having to stand tall and be more than you
can be.

It’s important to understand that this is a journey without distance because
you’re starting from the destination, whatever you imagine the destination is.
You see?

We’ve talked about your being the Sons and Daughters of God. And then two of
you deciding to play, I’m going to say—have a little imaginative fun. And
I promise you it happened in the sense of play. It did not happen in the sense
of a dark motivation to overthrow your Father. No. You decided to play with
making up your own definitions and making commitment to them. We’ve talked
about this at length.

Now when that happened, when you did that, you seemed to become unconscious of
your divinity, unconscious of your infinity, and you became plagued with fear
and guilt. And then you got entrapped into overcoming fear and guilt as though
that were the purpose of being. That’s all. You, the holy Son and Daughter of
God, moved into imagination and decided to serve your imagination and you never
for an instant became less than the holy Son or Daughter of God.

Therefore, you do not have to regain your position—your status, your holiness.
It never left you. You have just been ignoring it. It is essential to
understand that you’re not regaining a position you lost. You’re reawakening to
a position you had chosen to ignore. That’s all. And that’s a fantastic and
important difference because it makes the possibility of Waking up to your
divinity easy, because it’s natural to you, because you never stopped Being
the expression of God. Do you see that?

Be with that for a moment &hellip;

Now, we spoke last week about the fact that once you believed that you got
a divorce from your Father and that you were independent and on your own, you
used this particular aspect of your infinite presence—the one you call “your
body”—as a means of stabilizing yourself in your independent state. You used
it and continue to use it to make yourself safe, to exert control over others
so as to keep yourself safe. You use it to carry out acts that arise from your
fear and your sense of guilt.

And so your body, which is the visibility and tangibility of your divine
individuality, you use it in a manner opposite to its function and nature. And
that use that you put it to absolutely binds you to your ignorant state of
mind. You are using it in a way that keeps you from remembering who you Are
because it keeps you from remembering God. Why? Because every use you put it
to is used to verify and substantiate your definitions, not His.

You use your body to verify you, not the Father. And yet your body and all of
Creation has one function and one function only: To glorify God—to represent
God, to manifest God—not by any power residing in the body, but by virtue of
the body and you allowing it to be what it is and to let its function to be
activated, energized, directed by the Father now &hellip; now &hellip; now &hellip; now
&hellip; in every moment.

Now we also discussed last week that the way to Wake up is to abandon using
your body this way. To abandon using your body for defense and to abandon
using it for defense because you realize that fear and guilt are meaningless.
They do not arise out of your sanity. They do not arise out of your holiness.

And they will not be experienced when you are joined with the Father or when
you are joined with the Holy Spirit—which is nothing more than your right Mind,
another way of saying that it’s nothing more than your sanity.

Do you see how important this simple point is? It’s the Good News. And it’s
the good news that you can understand, although it’s not the good news that you
might be able to maintain a conscious awareness of with consistency. But the
point is, that once you know this truth, once you know of its significance, you
have a starting point from which to insist upon more and more consistently
being joined &hellip; more and more consistently choosing to say, “Father, what is
the truth here? Holy Spirit, what is the truth here? What is really going on
where I seem to see matter, where I seem to see a material world? Help me
experience the Kingdom of Heaven that you’re telling me it is.”

And then let that desire to see the Kingdom of Heaven where a material world
and universe has seemed to confront you forever, let that be in the forefront
of your conscious awareness over and over and over &hellip; continuously
&hellip; continuously &hellip; continuously &hellip; because it’s important to you to
not be misperceiving, especially when misperception is the only thing standing
in the way of your seeing a restored limb or a restored breast or
a straightened limb or straightened teeth—evidences of perfection that reflect
the nature of God right there in front of you.

What does it say here in the book?[^1]

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can stretch out your hand and reach to Heaven.
</div> 

Does that mean you can reach out in space, out into the heavens, out to
wherever Heaven is? No. You can stretch out and reach to Heaven because
whatever you touch, your body, the table, a glass of water, a flower—whatever
you touch is the Kingdom of Heaven, the visibility and the tangibility of the
Mind of God.

But more than that, you’re beginning to understand by virtue of the
explanations that are in the Course and that I am sharing, that when it appears
that you are touching something in front of you, it’s all Mind &hellip; it’s all
going on in Mind as a conscious experience of Being. When you touch a book,
when you touch a table, you are touching an idea and you are touching it with
your attention whether it’s called your finger or your arm or your body that
you’re embracing your wife or your lover with or a tree or whatever. You see?
It’s all a conscious experience that seems, we’ll say for convenience sake, to
occupy space.

But it’s the infinitude of Mind in which it is all going on—the infinitude of
your Mind—the infinitude of you as Mind experiencing Creation infinitely
because your Mind is the manifestation of the Mind of God.  It’s the Presence
of the Mind of God. Important. It’s not a manifestation &hellip; like God
plopped a manifestation out there in the ethers and it was your mind.

No. God Being, we’ll say, in the ethers is the Mind that you are experiencing
as the conscious experience of Being. But it’s also the Mind that a frog or
a rock is experiencing as the infinite conscious experience of Being in which
you are part of that rock’s or that frog’s conscious experience of Being. It’s
all One but it’s all Mind.

So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can stretch out your hand and reach to Heaven.
</div> 

You might call that new knowledge—a new awareness, a new perspective.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You whose hands are joined have begun to reach beyond the body, but NOT outside
yourselves, to reach your shared identity TOGETHER.
</div> 

You, who are purposely engaged in the holy relationship, have begun to reach
beyond the body. What does that mean? You’ve begun to reach beyond the
meanings you’ve applied to the body—the definitions you’ve given and the
purposes that you have assumed your bodies have. You see?

How is it that you’ve begun to reach beyond the body?

Well, because you have said as two who are joined in a holy relationship, you
have chosen not to try to join together with each other as bodies, but you have
chosen as individualities, individually, to say, “Father, what is the truth
here?” You have decided to practice the holy instant. You have decided not to
gather your understanding of things from your memory or the teachings of others
or even of each other. And you have decided to gather the truth of Being
directly from the Father, or we’ll say, His agent, the Holy Spirit—which is
nothing more than your right Mind held in trust while you have been dallying
with the ego.

Now I’ve said these things before, I’m saying them again so as to bring them
into even clearer and simpler focus.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You whose hands are joined have begun to reach beyond the body, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; this thing you’ve used for self-protection and coercion and control but
not outside yourselves, not outside yourselves to each other across the room
from each other, but from within, by saying, “Father what is the truth here?”

You &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; have begun to reach beyond the body, but NOT outside yourselves, to reach
your shared identity TOGETHER.
</div> 

&hellip; the oneness of the conscious experience of Being in which all is embraced
and experienced as consciousness or Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Could this be OUTSIDE you? Where God is NOT?
</div> 

No.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Is HE a body, and did He create you as He is not, and where He cannot be?
</div> 

No. The sheer logic of it says no.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are surrounded only by Him.
</div> 

You are surrounded only by the infinite Mind that God Is, which, when It Moved,
caused the infinite conscious experience of Being in which all was embraced and
in which all was complete and in which all was perfect. And in which not one
tiny aspect was excluded from any other. And all was embraced in an infinite
conscious experience of Being together that constituted Oneness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What limit can there be on you whom He &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; God, the infinite Mind that is the Movement that constitutes your
Being &hellip; 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; encompasses? Everyone has experienced what he would
call a sense of being transported beyond himself. This feeling of liberation
far exceeds the dream of freedom sometimes experienced in special relationships
&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; the “high,” the “hit” of undefendedness, we’ll say, against each other,
lack of defense against each other even though there’s no attempt to be joined
with the Father which is the holiness and sanity of your minds. And in that
experience, you find yourself experiencing limitlessness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This feeling of liberation far exceeds the dream of freedom sometimes
experienced in special relationships. It is a sense of actual ESCAPE from
limitations.
</div> 

It’s a hint of truth, but it’s not truth because it isn’t the result of the
holy instant. It isn’t the result of actually consciously joining with the
Father desiring to experience His Perspective about this one you’re in
relationship with.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you will consider what this "transportation" really entails, you will
realize that it is a sudden unawareness of the body, and a joining of yourself
and something else in which your mind enlarges to encompass it.
</div> 

Yes. But be careful. You will realize that it is a sudden unawareness of the
body not because the body isn’t real, not because it doesn’t have any divine
actuality, but because in that transportation into an enlarged conscious
awareness of things, you have forgotten the need for defense. And without the
need for defense, your body, although it is there, does not register with you
as being significant because it’s no longer relating to you in terms of your
safety.

And so, although it is there and able to function perfectly in any way you need
to be, it’s not there for the purpose that it was before. And therefore,
because that’s really the only recent meaning or definition of the body that
you’ve been employing, it seems to be absent. It’s just not preoccupying you
anymore—neither your body, nor the body of another—because you, in your
defenselessness, private though it might still be, you feel the peace of Being.
You feel the capacity to love. You feel the ability to embrace and you feel
the ability to be embraced.

Again, this gives you a hint of the actual effect of the holy instant. Remember
the times that that has happened with you, so that you might remind yourself
that there’s justification in practicing the two-step now&hellip; in practicing
the holy instant now.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It becomes part of you, as you unite with it. And both become whole, as neither
is perceived as separate. What really happens is that you have given up the
illusion of a limited awareness, and lost your fear of union.
</div> 

*You have given up the illusion of a limited awareness.* You’ve given up the
illusion of being a finite body whose function it is to protect yourself and
become something more than you have been. And in the process, dominate
intelligently, coerce wisely, be in control independently. And that’s what the
holy instant is about releasing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The love that instantly replaces it EXTENDS to what has freed you, and unites
with it.
</div> 

It extends to the one you’ve decided to be in a holy relationship with. Mind
you, the uniting that occurs is between you and the Father, between you and the
Holy Spirit. And the two of you who are in the holy relationship are not
focused on the relationship with each other. You are focused on, I’m going to
say, using each other for the benefit of having a reminder to turn to the Holy
Spirit in every instant before engaging with your partner in the holy
relationship. You see?

The holy relationship that you want to be in is not primarily a relationship
one-on-one between you and another. Always the holy relationship with each
other comes into being as each of you individually has a mutual agreement—have
decided to ask, “Father, what is the truth here.” Each of you has agreed to
let your primary mode of operating—of being with each other—be joining with the
Father first, or asking of the Holy Spirit first. And then looking at each
other and responding to each other from the clarity that comes. And that is
your holy relationship.

But you know what? It’s a gift. It’s not something you’ve created. Oh, and
it’s a gift of newness. It’s a gift of regeneration, of redemption. It’s
a gift of the return of sanity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The love that instantly replaces it &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; when you’ve given up the illusion of limited awareness &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; EXTENDS to what has freed you, and unites with it. And while this lasts,
you are not uncertain of your identity, and would not limit it. You have
escaped from fear to peace, asking no questions of reality, but merely
accepting it.
</div> 

You see? When you’re still independent, when you’re still in the orphanage and
when you’re suffering and you want to get out, you do turn to the Father and
you ask of the Father, “How can I change that bastard in room 223 down the
hall, who simply will not stop bugging me?” You see? You ask for help while
providing the process that must be followed in order to answer your question.
You try to get Reality to respond to you and change things for you with your
limited perception being what governs the appropriate conclusion [chuckles] of,
you better get what you’re needing because if you don’t get that then you might
as well of not asked &hellip; right?

But the incredible thing is, that when you abandon trying to tell the universe
how to treat you well or how to make things better for you, and you abandon the
control and the definitions you would like to exert, in the absence of that, in
the absence of willfulness, in the peace that replaces it, the Father’s
Perspective comes and provides you with the clarity of what you need to do, of
how you need to change the way you’re using your body, how you need to change
the way you’re using your mind so that it becomes humble, quiet, yielding. And
then in the absence of the disturbance created by your willfulness, the natural
harmony of being with the fellow down the hall will emerge and in fact the
structures of the orphanage will begin to disintegrate so that you might
rediscover that you are the holy Son of God, the holy Daughter of God and never
stopped for a moment.

So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have escaped from fear &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; and I’m going to say, and guilt &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to peace, asking no questions of reality, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; providing no determinations to it, not leading it to get it to do what
you want.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; asking no questions of reality, but merely accepting it.
</div> 

Accepting it because in the absence of your willfulness and all the disturbance
it does to your perceptions you suddenly can see the truth, feel the truth, see
things as they Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have accepted this INSTEAD of the body, and have let yourself be one with
something beyond it, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; *what does that mean—you have accepted this INSTEAD of the body?* It means
that you have accepted this, the Father’s Perspective as the determiner of your
experience, rather than the use you would put your body to so as to be the
determiner of your experience.

Doesn’t mean you’ve discarded the body. Doesn’t mean that you’ve come to
a point where you see it’s totally an illusion and worthless, useless,
meaningless. No. It just means that you’ve accepted the Father’s Perspective
as the determining factor of what you see and what you understand everything to
be instead of the body and the purpose you have given it, &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and have let yourself be one with something beyond it, simply by not
letting your mind be LIMITED by it.
</div> 

You see that? It’s by an undoing, by a non-doing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; simply by not letting your mind be LIMITED by it.
</div> 

So you stop using the body unintelligently. You stop using the body in a way
that is at odds with the Father’s intent for it. You abandon it. You let it
go. You cease using it. And in that, what’s happened? You’re no longer
providing the definitions, the mean-spirited, self-protective uses and actions
that you think it’s for. And in the absence of those—which limited you—peace
is yours and a new perspective is yours, and your relationship with this one
you want to have a holy relationship with is enhanced because your relationship
with the Father has been activated and persisted in. It’s simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This can occur regardless of the physical distance which seems to be between
you and what you join; of your respective positions in space; and of your
differences in size and seeming quality.
</div> 

See? All of those would be what you would call physical attributes—distance,
size, et cetera. Course, more size, more force, more size, more successful
manipulations and control. You see? And all of those things are irrelevant
because the things that seem to have size are nothing but ideas fulfilling
a purpose God has placed in them as they function in and relate to all of
Creation and its harmony and its fulfillment.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Time is not relevant; &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; in that conscious experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Time is not relevant; it can occur &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; the clarity &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; with something past, present or anticipated. The "something" can be
anything and anywhere; a sound, a sight, a thought, a memory, and even
a general idea without specific reference.
</div> 

And in actuality all of those things are ideas.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet in every case, you joined it without reservation because you love it, and
would be with it.
</div> 

You see? So here’s the thing: If you want to experience the Kingdom of Heaven
confronting you right now, instead of the material world and universe that you
think is confronting you, you’ve got to want to join with it. In joining with
it you’re going to be validating it, not invalidating it by calling it an
illusion. And by being willing to join with it, you abandon all of the
justifications you have for not joining with it, which are the mean-spirited
definitions that you’ve applied to it, causing it to seem to be not the
Presence of God, causing it to seem to be a material world and universe. You
see?

So it’s *imperative* that you not be calling anything that’s confronting you an
illusion. You may be seeing a misperception, but you’re misperceiving
something holy.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet in every case, you joined it without reservation because you love it, and
would be with it. And so you rush to meet it, letting your limits melt away,
suspending all the "laws" your body obeys, and gently setting them aside.

There is no violence at all in this escape. The body is not attacked, but
simply properly PERCEIVED.
</div> 

You see? To call it unreal, to call it an illusion, to dismiss it as
meaningless is to attack it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The body is not attacked, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; in this &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but simply properly PERCEIVED. It does not limit you, merely because you
would not have it so.
</div> 

Right now, you all would have it so. You would have it limit you because it’s
only in this use of it that it can seem to protect you. And being protected is
the all important thing. Why? Because of this darned fear and guilt that came
into play when you tried to be independent—and you think it’s real instead of
meaningless. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It does not limit you, merely because you would not have it so.
</div> 

You would not have it limit you. You are not using it for the old purpose any
longer. Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are not really "lifted out" of it; it cannot CONTAIN you.
</div> 

And therefore, it never has contained you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it cannot CONTAIN you. You go where you would be, gaining, not losing,
a sense of self.
</div> 

You see, in this process of doing the two-step and of having your vision
transformed, is an experience of increase in all ways as the fullness and
wholeness of being is returned to your conscious awareness because you’re not
blocking it any more. You’re saying, “I want it.” You’re looking at the
things in your world and you’re saying, “I want the perfection that’s there,
that I’m not seeing. I want it. And I refuse to continue to use my mind in
such a way that holds that in bondage to definitions I’m applying to it that
are not true. I want to know the truth about that thing. Father, I will be
quiet and listen for Thy Voice. I wish to Know the truth. I wish to join with
what is Real about that thing that up until now I thought was a material,
mortal object that had nothing whatsoever to do with reality.”

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You go where you would be, gaining, not losing, a sense of self. In these
instants of release from physical restrictions, you experience much of what
happens in the holy instant; the lifting of the barriers of time and space, the
sudden experience of peace and joy, and, above all, the lack of awareness of
the body, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; as a means of defense, as a means of control, as a means of protection
and ultimately as a means of not having to be joined with the Father, because
staying joined with your body and the definitions you’ve applied to it, are by
your definition exactly what will provide you with your salvation. And your
definition of salvation is to become a whole-souled individuality on your own.
Impossible.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the lifting of the barriers of time and space, the sudden experience of
peace and joy, and, above all, the lack of awareness of the body, and of the
questioning whether or not all this is possible.
</div> 

You see? You can nit-pick the Father to death, you might say. You can
nit-pick learning to death, by questioning whether it’s possible, by wondering
if you’re capable of it. Are you up to the task? You see? All of these
things are relevant to someone developing &hellip; the development and
transformation of the species, whether it’s a physical species or a spiritual
entity. These questions are simply distractions from saying, “Father, Thy Will
be done. Father, what is Thy Will? Father, what is the truth here? I am going
to neglect to provide the definitions any longer.”

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is possible because you WANT it. The sudden expansion of the self which
takes place with your desire for it is the irresistible appeal the holy instant
holds. It calls to you to be yourself, within its safe embrace.
</div> 

Its safe embrace is the embrace, which provides you with the clarity of truth.
It isn’t the place where you can come up with a better definition of truth on
your own. And that’s what makes it safe.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There are the laws of limit lifted FOR you, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; by the Holy Spirit—which is nothing more than your right Mind. Which
means that it’s done for you by that which you divinely Are and which you are
no longer significantly blocking and thereby, your sanity is returning.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There are the laws of limit lifted FOR you, to welcome you to openness of mind
and freedom. Come to this place of refuge, where you can be yourself in peace.
</div> 

Where you can be the self you Are, which is revealed to you when you abandon
your attempt to be what you are not, by means of using your body for a purpose
it was not intended—self-protection and defense.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Come to this place of refuge, where you can be yourself in peace. Not through
destruction, not through a "breaking out," but merely by &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; listen to this: &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; a quiet "melting in."
</div> 

Humility: The state of being humble. “Thy Will, not mine be done, Father.
I wish to Know the truth that You are Being in the constant Movement of
Creation. I no longer am interested in my definitions. I’m no longer
interested in confusing myself by creating definitions that are at odds with
Reality. I’m tired of the “hit” of apparently expressing authority. And
I will let You be the Mover of Creation that You Are. And I will let myself be
Moved by You.”

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For peace will join you there simply because you have been willing to let go
the limits you have placed upon love, and joined it where it is and where it
led you, in answer to its gentle call to BE at peace.
</div> 

Now in many ways the words that we’ve read this evening are much gentler than
the ones we’ve been reading for the last few get-togethers. But it doesn’t
change the fact that the beauty of the blessing of the holy instant can only be
experienced when you engage in the holy instant.

And remember to let your Brother or Sister, with whom you’ve joined for the
purpose of a holy relationship, let your Brother or Sister be the reason you
choose to turn to the Holy Spirit and practice the holy instant, so that your
relationship with each other is changed by God’s design, by the design of the
sanity of your Being and your partners Being, which is one in actuality. You
see?

I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: Chapter 18 – Section: DREAMS AND THE BODY \
  Sparkly Book – p438, 3rd Full Par. \
  JCIM p.183, 4th Full Par.\
  CIMS p369, Par. 58 \
  Chapter 18 – Section: BEYOND THE BODY \
  First Edition p360, Last Par.\
  Second Edition p387, Par. 10

