---
title: Apr 22, 2012
ref: "T18.8 The Purpose of the Body"
alink: "/acim/text/18/chap1808/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet. You know, never should you think that the study of the
Course is bound to be a protracted process that is difficult, that is
somehow different from your nature and therefore something not easily
graspable by you.

During these past few weeks while we&rsquo;ve been discussing in great
detail the nature of the holy instant and the role of the holy
relationship, it has become clearer and clearer how simple Awakening is.
It&rsquo;s something that occurs in the silence when you choose to
silence your thoughts and make an enquiry of the Father, &ldquo;what is
the truth here?&rdquo; meaning, &ldquo;Father, what is Your Perspective
regardless of my perspective?&rdquo; It&rsquo;s done in the
silence&mdash;a simple question and then a simple giving of attention in
the silence.

We&rsquo;ve discussed the fact that it&rsquo;s in this place of joining
with your Father&mdash;this rejoining with your Father&mdash;that you
move into an arena where God&rsquo;s laws prevail. The arena is the
arena of silence&mdash;the arena of the absence of your busy,
controlling thinking. That&rsquo;s all &hellip; that&rsquo;s all.

One clearly absolute requirement that accompanies this is the necessity
of doing it on behalf of a Brother or of a Sister or of some part of
God&rsquo;s Creation&mdash;some part of the world and universe that is
confronting you. You cannot do it for yourself and yourself alone. You
get the benefit of what you give. And that&rsquo;s the way it works.

You see, when you said, &ldquo;Father I&rsquo;d rather do it my way,
Father I&rsquo;d rather make up the definitions and the meanings for
everything, Father I want a divorce&rdquo; and you did this with a
Brother in tandem, in a mutual agreement to do so, you caused yourself
to experience being disconnected from your Source. And as we discussed,
you began to see yourself as an object instead of that conscious
awareness which is the Mind of God in You, enjoying the Father&rsquo;s
Perspective regarding the Kingdom of Heaven, which is not made up of
objects but made up of Ideas which are perfectly tangible to the Mind
that formed them.

When you shifted with commitment to your own private personal
perspective, you not only experienced separation from the Father, you
experienced separation from your Brothers and Sisters&mdash;the object
that you became are the objects that they became.

And so your intimate connection with them was lost. Why? Because in this
place of isolation, you felt fear and guilt because it was not natural
to your Being. And so you became defensive. You became self-protective
against the very Brother with whom you made a mutual agreement to make
up all of the meanings for everything.

Do you see what kind of an untenable position this created? [snaps
fingers] It instantly created tension!  You need your Brother to join in
the mutual agreement to stand separate from the Father. And yet, in the
standing apart, you became opponents. You became enemies, either mild
enemies or potentially great enemies.

And so it creates a push-me-pull-you state of tension: &ldquo;I need you
but I don&rsquo;t trust you. You are essential to my being in this place
where I can make decisions and be in charge of things myself. But I
cannot trust you and so I engage in this mutual agreement with you
carefully, untrustingly and therefore, it puts us in a constant state of
potential war &hellip; sometimes actualized.&rdquo;

You didn&rsquo;t expect that, when the two of you said,
&ldquo;Let&rsquo;s make up our own definitions and lets agree to them
together so that they have more substance than just our puny
imagination.&rdquo;

So, in order to return to your sanity, in order to Wake up, in order to
have the Father&rsquo;s Perspective which is your true perspective
returned to you, you must undo the divorce from your Father which
estranged you from your Brothers and Sisters. And this is why it is an
inescapable absolute fact that Awakening requires your doing the
Awakening&mdash;your practicing the two-step&mdash;on behalf of your
Brother or your Sister or some part of the infinitude of Creation that
you see as an object different from you, dangerous to you. You see?

Now, this still sounds complicated. What if your Brother doesn&rsquo;t
agree &hellip; what if your Sister doesn&rsquo;t cooperate? &ldquo;What
if I have an ancient grudge or grievance that I&rsquo;m unwilling to let
go of, I&rsquo;ll be stuck here forever.&rdquo; And it would seem to you
that there must be hundreds of thousands if not millions of little
justifications for not Awakening that will stand in your way, making
Awakening a formidable if not impossible task.

But remember what we discussed last week. The one simple thing that
needs to be brought into the picture is not a war against your ego, but
rather a simple practice of curiosity&mdash;a curiosity to see the more
of what God is Being right here, right there, anywhere, than what
you&rsquo;re seeing. The curiosity to see the more of what God is Being
right there anywhere, than what you&rsquo;re seeing.

You may find it impossible to lay down a grievance, but it is relatively
easy to practice curiosity. Especially when you have heard me say over
and over in so many different ways that the practice of curiosity
invites one thing: When you say, &ldquo;Father&rdquo;&mdash;here&rsquo;s
the curiosity&mdash;&ldquo;what is the truth here?&rdquo; you&rsquo;re
abandoning your isolation and you&rsquo;re asking for a perspective
greater than the one you&rsquo;re currently suffering from.

That is simple &hellip; that is simple.

I&rsquo;ve made it clear that the payoff for doing this&mdash;this
practice of curiosity&mdash;will inevitably come and it will not cost
you anything. It will constitute an experience of fulfillment. So if for
any reason you thought, &ldquo;Boy, it&rsquo;s taking us a long time to
get through the book, is it going to be another eight years before we
get to the end and can Wake up?&rdquo; No. Wake up tonight. Practice
curiosity tonight, tomorrow, today. You see?

Practice curiosity with whatever degree of safety you have been able to
acquire through listening to me explain the nature of Awakening, the
process of it, the steps of it, and the fact that coming back into your
Right Mind is a natural wholizing process, not an unnatural traumatic
process.

And so you can dare to practice curiosity with a little bit more
carefree abandon.

Now, continuing in the book, we ended up last week referring to this
private sense of self-hood:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This little self is not your kingdom.[^1]
</div>

It is not your kingdom &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Arched high above it and surrounding it with love is the glorious whole,
which offers all its happiness and deep content to every part. The
little aspect which you think you set apart is no exception.
</div>

In other words, this little part of the wholeness of you that
you&rsquo;ve said is what you are, is no exception to the fact that all
of Creation, all of infinity, all of the wholeness of you is what is
inside this little boundary that you&rsquo;ve created. And so you are
not any different from the wholeness of You, and the wholeness of You
which we&rsquo;ve called the Holy Spirit is nothing more than your right
Mind held in trust for you while you keep reinforcing this flimsy
bubble&mdash;this flimsy boundary &hellip; you see?

You are embraced by and constituted of everything that&rsquo;s outside
the bubble because the bubble is just creating an artificial boundary
between the whole of You&mdash;the whole of God&rsquo;s Mind, the whole
of God&rsquo;s Creation.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love knows no bodies&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and that isn&rsquo;t because bodies are an illusion.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love knows no bodies&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as boundaries.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love knows no bodies&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as that which you have devised through an incredible use of
your imaginations. Love knows no boundaries. That&rsquo;s what it means
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and reaches to everything created like itself.
</div>

In other words, it doesn&rsquo;t reach to that which you&rsquo;ve
created, that which you&rsquo;ve imagineered. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[It] reaches to everything created like itself.
</div>

So it reaches to that which is inside the bubble, and it reaches to that
which is outside the bubble, because what&rsquo;s inside and outside is
the same thing. And the bubble is nonsense to Love because it&rsquo;s
not actual. It only seems actual to you in your mind&rsquo;s eye through
the use of your imagination.

So again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love knows no bodies, and reaches to everything created like itself. Its
total lack of limit IS its meaning.
</div>

You see? &hellip; and you inside the bubble &hellip; you see, the total
limit established by the bubble is your meaning, is the meaning you have
established for yourself. You see? But it&rsquo;s just imagination and
you can abandon it at any moment that you would rather Wake up, that you
would rather release your anger, your frustration, your pride, your
attempt to become great all by yourself, on your terms by means of your
definitions.

Love &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is completely impartial in its giving, encompassing &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; embracing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; only to preserve and keep complete what it would give.
</div>

You see, if it didn&rsquo;t embrace it and it let a little bit slip out
of it&rsquo;s embrace, well that little bit wouldn&rsquo;t be kept whole
with the whole, would it? Suddenly we have a little random gad-about,
sourceless, looks like love, but it&rsquo;s not embraced in everything.
You see? Nonsense!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Love] is completely impartial in its giving, encompassing only to
preserve and keep complete &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or whole &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; what it would give. In your tiny kingdom you have so little!
</div>

Poor you. Poor everyone. But it was set up that way so that you could
achieve, so that you could get, so that you could accumulate and prove
your worth by your accumulations. Littleness is essential to
satisfaction and accomplishment. Because when you can overcome the
littleness you have proven yourself to be real.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In your tiny kingdom you have so little!
</div>

Do you have an abundance of health eternally? No. You just have a little
bit: um…possibly seventy, eighty, ninety years? That&rsquo;s not much.
And you accept it. You don&rsquo;t like it but you have thought
that&rsquo;s the way it is. That&rsquo;s what life is &hellip; short
&hellip; little.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In your tiny kingdom you have so little! Should it not, then, be there
that you would call on love to enter?
</div>

Yes! And that&rsquo;s the function of the two-step. That&rsquo;s the
function of the holy instant and that&rsquo;s the purpose of a holy
relationship. You see how it all fits together?

You don&rsquo;t try to escape the awfulness of your little kingdom, you
invite that which is Big into it. How do you do that? You do it by
causing a pin-prick in the bubble. And you cause the pin-prick in the
bubble by reaching beyond it: &ldquo;Father, Holy
Spirit&rdquo;&mdash;that which is outside the bubble&mdash;&ldquo;what
is the truth?&rdquo; You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Should it not, then, be there that you would call on love to enter? Look
at the desert&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; look at the barrenness of your life. Look at the sickness, sin,
and death. Look at the predominance of effort and strain as opposed to
abundance and peace.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Look at the desert, dry and unproductive, scorched and joyless, which
makes up your little kingdom.
</div>

&hellip; but which you&rsquo;ve tried to make something out of. And
you&rsquo;re proud of what you have managed to provide and create and
it&rsquo;s given you some satisfaction that causes you to want to work
even harder at doing even more without abandoning your isolation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Look at the desert, dry and unproductive, scorched and joyless, which
makes up your little kingdom.
</div>

Now, let&rsquo;s face it. That&rsquo;s what life without your Source
already is. Every day you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Look at the desert, dry and unproductive, scorched and joyless, which
makes up your little kingdom.
</div>

&hellip; and it depresses you! It does not make you happy and it
shouldn&rsquo;t. But understand that you&rsquo;re already doing this.
We&rsquo;re talking about not just doing that. Listen &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Look at the desert, dry and unproductive&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; look at it for what it is. Don&rsquo;t gloss it over.
Don&rsquo;t see it as some integral part&mdash;necessary part&mdash;of
your achieving success, something that you would thereby want to keep
and use for your progress.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Look at the desert, dry and unproductive, scorched and joyless, which
makes up your little kingdom. And realize the life and joy which love
would bring to it from where it comes, and where it would return with
you.
</div>

You see? Quite a difference. Take a square hard look at what isn&rsquo;t
satisfying.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And realize the life and joy which love &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which fills infinity beyond the bubble as well as within the
bubble &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; would bring to it from where it comes&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; would bring to the inside of the bubble from the outside of the
bubble &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and where it would return with you.
</div>

By virtue of its entry into the bubble and your desire to reach beyond
the bubble, the bubble will burst. And you will be with love in the
wholeness of your Being, in Creation itself with the Father&rsquo;s
Perspective.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Thought of God surrounds your little kingdom&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; Creation, the Kingdom of Heaven, as what It is, inside and
outside the bubble, actually asserts Itself to burst the bubble because
it&rsquo;s an unnatural, unreal phenomena that doesn&rsquo;t fit.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Thought of God surrounds your little kingdom, waiting at the barrier
you built to come inside and shine upon the barren ground. See how life
springs up everywhere!
</div>

When that happens&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; See how life springs up everywhere! The desert becomes a
garden, green and deep and quiet, offering rest to those who lost their
way and wander in the dust.
</div>

The only reason they&rsquo;re wandering in dust and the only reason
there seems to be dust instead of green, lush, verdant life is because
the definition given to the earth is one of evolution through struggle.
And so the evidence of what makes it a struggling affair is built right
into it and the dust covers everything, covering up its lush greenness
and moisture.

But Creation as the Father is Being It, is present right there, out of
sight, underneath the definitions you have applied on top of it. You
see? That&rsquo;s why all that&rsquo;s needed is curiosity, not a
makeover of a false creation that&rsquo;s &ldquo;real.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Give them &hellip; those who lost their way and wander in the dust.

Give them a place of refuge, prepared by love for them where once a
desert was.
</div>

Well, how&rsquo;s this place prepared for them? It&rsquo;s prepared for
them by your caring enough to want to know the truth, the God&rsquo;s
honest truth about them&mdash;your Brothers and Sisters&mdash;and about
this world and universe that you have forgotten is actually the Kingdom
of Heaven and which you are not expressing any curiosity to see for what
It truly Is.

You&rsquo;re going to prepare this place for those who are weary of the
struggle, by virtue of wanting to know what the truth is for them, not
so that you can become great or have it for yourself. But in your
willingness to desire it for them to become conscious of it so that
it&rsquo;s easy to share the truth with them, you get to keep what you
give.

But boy, try and get it for yourself alone and you&rsquo;re just
rehearsing what you&rsquo;ve always been doing in the dream and it
won&rsquo;t cause Awakening.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Give them a place of refuge, prepared by love &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your desire to know what is Real.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Give them a place of refuge, prepared by love for them where once a
desert was. And everyone you welcome will bring love with him from
Heaven for you.
</div>

Listen &hellip; you don&rsquo;t want to miss some of these important
words

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And everyone you welcome will bring love with him from Heaven for you.
</div>

Now mind you, these that you&rsquo;re welcoming are those who have
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; lost their way and wander in the dust.
</div>

So these are not Awakened Brothers. But it says &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; everyone you welcome will bring love with him from Heaven for
you.
</div>

Here&rsquo;s the key word, &ldquo;welcome.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And everyone you welcome &hellip;
</div>

Remember, I started out this evening talking about the fact that when
you got a divorce from your Father and lost your connection, you also
lost your intimate loving connection with your Brother because your
Brother became somebody you could not trust. And so your Brother became
your enemy. And as a result, you treat everyone with guarded care. Some
you don&rsquo;t have to bring as much concern to and other&rsquo;s you
have to be very alert for&mdash;you think. But you never allow yourself
to be totally vulnerable with anyone, because at the bottom line you do
not welcome them. You are guarded. You practice doubt.

In many ways you become a sleuth and you become very good at spotting
irregularities that might pin-point a deviant behavior or intent that
might be to your disadvantage. You see? But listen to this again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And everyone you welcome will bring love with him from Heaven for you.
</div>

That&rsquo;s what happens when you stop seeing your Brother as an
opponent, as someone untrustworthy. The moment you abandon your defense
against him and let him in defenselessly, he will bring love with him,
she will bring love with her, because he or she feels your benignness.
It&rsquo;s that simple. You will find everyone&rsquo;s behavior
changing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And everyone you welcome will bring love with him from Heaven for you.
</div>

That one will feel safe enough to be defenseless himself or herself, and
what will exude from them will be their Heaven-sent nature, which they
are safe to share with you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They enter one by one into this holy place, but they will not depart as
they had come, alone.
</div>

Joining will have occurred because you welcomed them and they could feel
it. This is the effect of the holy instant. And the capacity to treat
your Brothers that way arises out of your willingness to treat one
Brother that way.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The love they brought with them will stay with them&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it won&rsquo;t be stolen away to add to your good, it &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will stay with them, as it will stay with YOU. And under its
beneficence, your little garden will expand, and reach out to everyone
who thirsts for living water, but has grown too weary to go on alone.
</div>

You see? What you are willing to bring to one Brother in a holy
relationship, you begin to be able to bring to many Brothers. And so the
breakdown of isolation expands. Embrace includes more and more. And so
once the movement begins it progresses until it becomes all inclusive.
And all the way along the way you will be practicing loving your Brother
and Sister, reaching out to more and more of them on purpose because
it&rsquo;s your function and there&rsquo;s nothing that you would rather
do than be part of that which is the transformation of the orphanage
into the Kingdom of Heaven.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Go out and find them&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; there you go. You&rsquo;ve listened to know how to use your
body sinlessly, in other words, for something other than self-defense.
And when you do, you&rsquo;re given a task. You find what it&rsquo;s
appropriate to be being and it&rsquo;s easy to be that. And so you do.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Go out and find them, for they bring your Self with them.
</div>

They bring their Self with them and they bring their capacity to see
your Self with them. And because you&rsquo;re undefended, you&rsquo;re
not relating to them as a body which is a boundary. They feel welcome
and welcomed. And they give from the truth of them. I promise you, this
is what it&rsquo;s about.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And lead them gently to your quiet garden, and receive their blessing
there. So will it grow and stretch across the desert, leaving no lonely
little kingdoms &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; um, you know, little egos with their kingdoms inside their
head.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
So will it grow and stretch across the desert, leaving no lonely little
kingdoms locked away from love&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; why? Because you care enough to engage in the holy instant with
them. And because you care enough to have a holy relationship with them,
which is one of love and inclusion, rather than self-protection and
defense. And mind you, you can start that tonight. You can start it
right now, whenever it is you&rsquo;re listening to this. And you
don&rsquo;t have to put it off. Now is the time.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
So will it grow and stretch across the desert, leaving no lonely little
kingdoms locked away from love, and leaving YOU inside. And you will
recognize yourself, and see your little garden gently transformed into
the Kingdom of Heaven&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not like it was really something else, but it will be
transformed into what it always was, because you will not be reinforcing
the definitions you have brought into play for the purpose of making
something great out of yourself. You won&rsquo;t be doing this anymore
or you won&rsquo;t be trying to do this anymore.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will recognize yourself, and see your little garden gently
transformed into the Kingdom of Heaven, with all the love of its Creator
shining upon it.
</div>

Uh-oh &hellip; with all the love of its Creator &hellip; is that you? Is
that the you who&rsquo;s Waking up? No. Its Creator is God. Its Creator
is the infinite Mind, which moves, the Movement of which is Creation.
And your function is to acknowledge It for what It is, and in that
acknowledgment be co-creator with the Father.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant is your invitation to love, to enter into your bleak
and joyless kingdom&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; see, it&rsquo;s not about you doing something like &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant is your invitation to love&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not your invitation to be loving yourself, but &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant is your invitation to love, to enter into your bleak
and joyless kingdom&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; this love that is filling. Infinity beyond the circumference
of the bubble that you&rsquo;ve used to separate a little part of your
wholeness off from the rest so that it could become something
important. So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant is your invitation to love, to enter into your bleak
and joyless kingdom, and to transform it into a garden of peace and
welcome.
</div>

That&rsquo;s the effect of practicing the two-step and the holy instant.
That&rsquo;s the effect of the simple practice of the two-step and the
holy instant.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">	
Love's answer &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what did I say?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is inevitable.
</div>

That which is outside the bubble will inevitably perforate and pass
through the bubble causing it to no longer seem to separate what is
actually One.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It will come because you came without the body&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; now what does it really mean? Because you came without the
boundary, you came without the practice of defense &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and interposed no barriers which would interfere with its glad
coming. In the holy instant, you ask of love only what it offers
everyone, neither less nor more. ASKING for everything, you will RECEIVE
it.
</div>

Demanding it, thinking you can create it yourself out of whole cloth,
out of imagination won&rsquo;t work.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
ASKING &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; isn&rsquo;t that humiliating, like begging?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
ASKING for everything, you will RECEIVE it. And your shining Self will
lift the tiny aspect which you tried to hide from Heaven straight INTO
Heaven.
</div>

Listen to that again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And your shining Self will lift the tiny aspect which you tried to hide
from Heaven straight INTO Heaven.
</div>

The bubble pops and that of you which you were only paying attention to
within the bubble is immediately sucked into, immediately finds itself
in the middle of the Whole&mdash;the all of You.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No part of love calls on the whole in vain. No Son of God remains
outside His Fatherhood.

Be sure of this; love has entered your special relationship&hellip;
</div>

Now we&rsquo;re not using the word &ldquo;special relationship&rdquo;
every time we read from the last couple of chapters, but the context of
all of this is the replacement of the special relationship with the holy
relationship. And so if you thought that because we weren&rsquo;t
talking about special or holy relationships quite as much as we have
about the holy instant don&rsquo;t think that you can Wake up without
this fundamental intimate involvement with your Brother where your
Brother is the reason you use for wanting to know what the truth is
here.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be sure of this; love has entered your special relationship, and entered
fully at your weak request.
</div>

You don&rsquo;t abandon what you love joyfully or vocally or loudly, or
with great strength. You&rsquo;re not sure if you really want to Awaken.
You don&rsquo;t even know for sure whether there is really anything to
Awaken into. And so you sort of gingerly&mdash;like you would step into
a cold swimming pool, stick a toe in&mdash;you gingerly, lightly, weakly
desire to know the truth. Doesn&rsquo;t make any difference if you do
it, if you make the request, if you express the curiosity it will be
rewarded.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not recognize that love has come because you have not yet let go
of all the barriers you hold against each other. And you will not be
able to give love welcome separately.
</div>

Just absolutely fundamental:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will not be able to give love welcome separately. You could
no more know God alone than He knows you without your brother. But,
TOGETHER, you could no more be unaware of love than love could know you
not, or fail to recognize itself in you.
</div>

You see, Awakening is the undoing of an ignorance of what&rsquo;s Real,
of what is already true and could never have changed. Waking up is
remembering what you have always been, even though you have been
pre-occupied with your imagination and your great investment of
commitment to it. So it does not take a great amount of effort or
strength to reconfigure everything. All it takes is the willingness to
abandon the commitment you have to the definitions you have made up
which you have so far been unwilling to release because you think your
life depends upon them.

Releasing them is the simple abandonment of a faith in something that
isn&rsquo;t Real, an imagination, an idea. That&rsquo;s all. Remember
this. That&rsquo;s why you can Wake up tonight or today or tomorrow
&hellip; not way down the line.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have reached the end of an ancient journey, not realizing yet that
it is over. You are still worn and tired, and the desert's dust still
seems to cloud your eyes and keep you sightless. Yet He Whom you
welcomed has come to you, and would welcome YOU.
</div>

Your Brother &hellip; your Brothers and Sisters.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet He Whom you welcomed &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; He Whom you confronted without defense. He Whom you confronted
without a preoccupation with your own safety will allow himself or
herself to be received by you without defense as well.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet He Whom you welcomed &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; embraced defenselessly &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has come to you, and would welcome &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; embrace defenselessly &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; YOU.
</div>

You see? What you give you receive and what you give you get to keep.
It&rsquo;s a simple principle.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He has waited long to give you this &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Brothers and Sisters have. Your Brothers and Sisters
don&rsquo;t know it yet, not all of them. Not those who are sick in the
dream. But nevertheless, this is not their natural state. And that which
is natural in them has waited a long time to be in touch with that which
is natural in you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He has waited long to give you this. Receive it now of Him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you can&rsquo;t receive through a boundary. You can&rsquo;t
receive through a defense, but you can receive through defenseless
welcome.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Receive it now of Him, for He would have you know Him.
</div>

Now we&rsquo;re not talking about an Awakened brother. We&rsquo;re
talking about the guy who lives next door or the lady who lives up above
you &hellip; or the child who is hollering and crying in the other room
because he&rsquo;s impatient.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Receive it now of Him, for He would have you know Him.
</div>

&hellip; not who he believes he is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only a little wall of dust &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or a flimsy bit of water and soap &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; still stands between you. Blow on it lightly and with happy
laughter and it will fall away, and walk into the garden love has
prepared for BOTH of you.
</div>

I could ask you, what keeps you from doing it? But you know what? You
are going to get caught up for the next five weeks or five months trying
to answer that and thinking that the answer to it would be somehow
valuable and contributive.

Don&rsquo;t wonder or explore why you&rsquo;re not doing it. [snaps
fingers] Do it with carefree abandon, what you might feel is
carelessness. [snaps fingers] Do it! It&rsquo;s what it&rsquo;s all
about. And it&rsquo;s the only thing standing between you&mdash;the
doing or not doing of it&mdash;is the only thing that stands between
you. No, the not doing of it is the only thing that stands between you
and your Awakening and the Gift you would bring to everyone who is still
dreaming.

I love you. I love you all. Have fun stepping up to the flimsy boundary
and diving through it or blowing on it or laughing at it. And invite the
Father&rsquo;s Perspective in &hellip; invite Love&rsquo;s Presence in
&hellip; invite the Holy Spirit&mdash;which is nothing more than your
right Mind, in Its totality, in.

And I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T18.8 The Purpose of the Body

