---
title: May 12, 2012
ref: "T18.10 The Passing of the Dream"
alink: "/acim/text/18/chap1810/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well, we&rsquo;re coming to the end of a chapter, which is entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Dream and the Reality*[^1]
</div>

And I encourage everyone who has been participating in these study
groups to take some time this coming week to go back and review what has
been discussed. You will find that this chapter is like &hellip; it
describes the anatomy of the holy instant, it describes the function of
the holy instant and the purpose of the holy instant.

And if you remember last time, we discussed the fact that as you come
near the boundary that divides you from who you divinely Are, the
boundary that embraces that which you identify as you and you alone, not
you and You joined, but you and you alone, you become uncomfortable.
Because the closer you get to the boundary, the more likely it is that
the bubble will pop. This flimsy boundary will break up and you will
lose all of the authority and all of that which has made you valuable.
You will lose all that you have created&mdash;the self you have created,
the respect you have garnered from your excellent work, and so on.

But more than anything, it will uncover the guilt that&rsquo;s
ever-present as long as you&rsquo;re trying to maintain the bubble. Once
you see the guilt, once you feel the guilt and you don&rsquo;t avoid it,
a peculiar thing happens: The boundary of the bubble before it bursts
becomes less opaque. And you can see Light on the other side. You can,
we&rsquo;ll say, see through it. And as that happens, it becomes more
obvious to you that there&rsquo;s nothing for you to fear.

Now the point is, that when you arrive where the fear arises, you need
to hold onto your Guide&rsquo;s hand, you need to hold on to the Holy
Spirit&rsquo;s hand ever more tightly because you have moved toward the
boundary because you&rsquo;ve been led. That which is nothing more than
your right Mind, which occupies all of infinity on the outside of the
bubble is intent upon bringing the tiny part of you that you value so
highly that is enclosed within the bubble, outside the bubble so that
that flimsy boundary separating you from the wholeness of You is no
longer causing this aberration of perception called,
&ldquo;separation&rdquo; and you experience the wholeness of You with
nothing any longer seeming to separate you into two.

Now, you might even find that as you&rsquo;ve listened to Guidance, as
you have reached out in the holy instant to the Father or to the Holy
Spirit and asked, &ldquo;What is the truth here? What is Reality that
fills the inside and the outside of the bubble and therefore renders the
bubble useless, meaningless and false,&rdquo; when you do that, when you
practice the holy instant as I said, you&rsquo;ve done it because the
movement toward the boundary occurs because the Holy Spirit or the
Father leads you. As a result, you can come to the false conclusion that
listening to Guidance is not helpful, is dangerous, otherwise you would
not be frightened. And that can cause you to refuse to listen. Because
not listening allows you to move away from the boundary and you feel
more safe, less frightened.

You must understand the phenomena here so that when you experience the
fear, you say, &ldquo;Okay Holy Spirit, I am leaning more significantly
into Your Guidance. I entrust myself to you more completely. Because I
know it is Your purpose to move me through the boundary freeing me from
it and bringing me back into the clear undistorted experience of
Reality, we could say, the clear undistorted experience of the world and
universe as what it really Is&mdash;the Kingdom of Heaven.&rdquo;

This chapter describes the process of the holy instant and how it brings
you to the boundary and carries you through. And so, at the very end of
the chapter here, we&rsquo;re in a section called:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Passing of the Dream
</div>

It could also be called, The Abandonment of the Dream, The Release from
the Dream. Abandonment of the Dream is a better choice of words. Release
from the Dream makes it sound as though the dream has a capacity to
entrap and hold you&mdash;something in itself that can have a negative
effect on you. And that&rsquo;s not the case. You will abandon the
dream. The practice of the holy instant is the process of abandoning the
dream.

The holy instant is the bridge out of the dream&mdash;out of the
bubble&mdash;which in the process of the Movement, pops the bubble,
restoring you to your wholeness, restoring you to your holiness,
restoring the one you have joined with in a holy relationship for the
purpose of Awakening.

Now, going into the book:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Passing of the Dream

This course will LEAD to knowledge, but knowledge itself is still beyond
the scope of our curriculum. Nor is there any need for us to try to
speak of what must forever lie beyond words.
</div>

Now I have used the word, &ldquo;Knowing&rdquo; which I capitalize so
that it means something different from a puny little mind thinking it
knows something. I have used the word, &ldquo;Knowing&rdquo; in
preference to the word, &ldquo;knowledge&rdquo; as it has been used in
the Course. So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This Course will lead to [Knowing], but [Knowing] itself is still beyond
the scope of our curriculum.
</div>

And what that means is, that Knowing is still beyond the scope of the
bubble and the curriculum. The whole purpose of the curriculum is to
bring you to the place where the bubble is burst. Your insistence upon
joining with the Father or the Holy Spirit and abandoning your
isolation, that is what the Course is about and that is what its study
should be leading you to&mdash;an act!  Not accumulated knowledge.

So again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[The] Course will lead to knowledge&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; will lead to Knowing&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but [Knowing] itself is still beyond the scope our curriculum.
</div>

The curriculum is only going to take you to the edge of your decision to
be alone, on your own. There&rsquo;s Something that&rsquo;s going to
carry you beyond that. But that&rsquo;s all the Course can do. And so in
the process of movement, in the process of the benefit of practicing the
holy instant, you will seem to be learning and you will seem to be
acquiring knowledge. But it is all for the purpose of leading you to the
point where you will go beyond it.

So, Knowing itself &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; knowledge itself is still beyond the scope of our curriculum.
Nor is there any need for us to try to speak of what must forever lie
beyond words. We need remember only that whoever attains the real world,
beyond which learning cannot go, WILL go beyond it, but in a different
way.
</div>

Learning, being willing to learn will take you to the threshold, to the
boundary of the bubble, the boundary of the definitions which you have
made up and firmly identified yourself as, it will take you there. And
then no more learning will occur. No more learning can take you beyond
the boundary. So learning will not continue when you go beyond the
boundary. But you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; WILL go beyond it&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you will go beyond learning &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but in a different way.
</div>

Now what I&rsquo;m going to say here is in some ways actual and in some
ways not literal. I use it to help explain how you might go beyond the
boundary and experience things in a different way.

Through education, someone can describe to you what sandpaper is. And
you might be able to visualize that there&rsquo;s paper with grit that
has been applied to it that is rough, that is actually rough enough to
wear down substances if you rub it against substances. And so you will
have an intellectual understanding, you will have knowledge about it.
But when someone actually hands you a piece of sandpaper and you feel it
and you have the experience of what the description meant, that is
entirely different. You see?

So&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We need remember only that whoever attains the real world&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and that doesn&rsquo;t mean some will and some won&rsquo;t.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We need remember only that [when you attain] the real world . .
</div>

&hellip; I&rsquo;ll start over &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We need remember only that whoever attains the real world, beyond which
learning cannot go, WILL go beyond it, but in a different way.
</div>

When you move through the bubble, for lack of better words, you will
experience God&rsquo;s Perspective about each and every thing. It will
be an experience, not an explanation. You see?

The whole purpose of this book and the whole purpose of this chapter
that we&rsquo;ve just been reading, is to clearly express the dynamics
and the nature of this movement through the bubble so that you, we will
say, graduate out of knowledge into experience.

You should not be studying this book for the purpose of acquiring
knowledge about what &ldquo;A Course in Miracles&rdquo; is about. You
need to be reading it as though it is talking about you and helping move
you into an experience of Reality, rather than knowledge. Knowledge is
static. It is as though knowledge is set in stone.

But the experience of Reality is a Movement to be experienced in the
moment&mdash;to be experienced as you bring your attention to &ldquo;the
Now,&rdquo; without preconceptions and with the child-like curiosity to
Know what&rsquo;s really going on here? So that you might join with the
Father Who is out of Himself, Being You. &ldquo;What is the truth here?
How do You see things Father? What is really going on?&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Where learning ends &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; we&rsquo;ll say, at the edge of the bubble &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; there God begins&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and goes forever, beyond the circumference of the bubble.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Where learning ends there God begins&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I&rsquo;m going to say, where learning ends, there you in
your Reality, begin.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Where learning ends there God begins, for learning ends before Him Who
is complete where He begins&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; listen to this again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; learning ends before Him Who is complete where He begins,
</div>

&hellip; learning ends when you get to the edge of the bubble. If you
move through the edge of the bubble, you are at the beginning of God.
But having moved through the bubble, you are where God is whole &hellip;
you see? . . complete, and at that instant the bubble pops! And
there&rsquo;s no &ldquo;behind&rdquo; that&rsquo;s called &ldquo;the
inside of the bubble.&rdquo; The behind is the rest of the infinity of
God and the rest of the infinity of You. So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Where learning ends there God begins, for learning ends before Him Who
is complete where He begins, and where there IS no end.
</div>

You see? The minute you move through the bubble, you&rsquo;re where God
seems to begin because it&rsquo;s on the other side of the boundary of
self that you have artificially created. And when you move through it,
the bubble pops and where God began is where God also never ends because
you have shifted into Eternity, you have shifted into Infinity which is
an Eternal Now constituted of the Movement of the divine Mind of God,
the Movement of which is experienced as Creation and which you
experience as Creation&mdash;no longer as a &ldquo;material world and
universe&rdquo;&mdash;and you join with the Father acknowledging what it
Is, truly. And that&rsquo;s called, &ldquo;Co-Creation.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is not for us to dwell on what CANNOT be attained. There is too much
to learn.
</div>

So we won&rsquo;t talk about what it&rsquo;s going to be like after you
pass through the bubble and experience your wholeness, because at the
moment there&rsquo;s still learning to be engaged in.

What learning? Well, the learning that will happen whenever you decide
to practice the holy instant. Because until you are Awake, the holy
instant stands as the bridge that brings you closer and closer to the
edge of the bubble, and in the process reveals&mdash;by means of your
Guide&rsquo;s Guidance&mdash;the truth about You, the truth about your
Brother, the truth about the world and universe.

And by virtue of your standing firmly hand-in-hand with your Guide, you
will be led through peace and fear to the other side of the bubble
[snaps fingers] where the bubble pops!

But there needs to be commitment to stay with your Guide, even though
your Guide brings you closer and closer to &hellip; what? . . the nature
of the decision you made when you got your divorce from the Father. The
last thing you will undo, the last thing, the last element that keeps
that bubble together, is the decision you made to get a divorce from
your Father and be independent. And the undoing of that, you must arrive
at a willingness to engage in.

You will only be able to do that through the Love of the Holy Spirit and
the Love of the Father, which has set into place the means for coming
back into your right Mind.

And so, you&rsquo;re at a place where you must, for lack of better
words, significantly hang onto your Sanity&mdash;your holiness. The Holy
Spirit&mdash;which is nothing more than your right Mind&mdash;is your
Sanity. And your Sanity will safely carry you over the threshold of the
boundary you created. It will safely carry you across. And in the
crossing undo &hellip; burst the bubble.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is too much to learn. The readiness for knowledge still must be
attained.
</div>

And again, that is the purpose of the holy relationship. The purpose of
the holy relationship is to attain the clarity of the Presence of God in
your Brother or your Sister because you love your Brother or Sister
enough to want to see beneath the surface, to see beyond the definitions
you&rsquo;re applying to him or her, or the definitions he or she is
applying to himself or herself. That&rsquo;s what it&rsquo;s all about.

The holy instant is never a place in which separate, individual,
isolated, private realization occurs.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love is not learned. Its meaning lies in itself.
</div>

[whispering] It&rsquo;s an experience. Love is an experience, actually,
whether you&rsquo;re Awake or asleep, whether you&rsquo;re thinking
you&rsquo;re separate and alone or not. Love is an experience. And you
have the experience. The problem is that you embrace it in your very
highly stylized perceptions that arise out of fear and guilt because you
chose an independent stance. Nevertheless, it&rsquo;s an experience that
you have whether you&rsquo;re inside or outside the bubble.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love is not learned. Its meaning lies in itself. And learning ends when
you have recognized all it is NOT.
</div>

Listen to that again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; learning ends when you have recognized all it is NOT.
</div>

Whew! &hellip; now that &hellip; that could sound like it would take
eternity for you to ferret out, all that love is not. I mean, you know
&hellip; you know there&rsquo;s a lot of stuff going on, you know
there&rsquo;s a lot of stuff that has occurred in your own minds that is
not love. You mean you&rsquo;ve got to ferret it out, every last bit
before you can Wake up? No. Listen to this &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; learning ends when you have recognized all it is NOT.
</div>

And here&rsquo;s the all that it is not: THINKING! Thinking is all that
love is not. It doesn&rsquo;t matter how many thousands of thoughts you
might have, once you realize that thinking binds you to insanity, once
you realize that thinking, no matter what the subject, is useless, once
you realize that it blocks you from your good, you can stop doing all
that love is not, by silencing yourself. You see how simple, how
uncomplicated?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love is not learned. Its meaning lies in itself.
</div>

The experience it is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And learning ends when you have recognized all it is NOT.
</div>

You see? In effect, learning is the undoing of all the thinking
you&rsquo;ve done. But the ultimate learning in it is to arrive at a
point where you realize that thinking itself, and not what you have been
thinking about, is what needs to be abandoned. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That is the interference;
</div>

&hellip; all that love is not. Thinking!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That is the interference; that is what needs to be undone.
</div>

&hellip; not a whole bunch of stuff&mdash;one thing. Silence yourself.
Shut up! And in the silence ask, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth
here?&rdquo; You see how simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love is not learned because there never was a time in which you knew it
not. Learning is useless in the Presence of your Creator,
</div>

&hellip; well, when you come to the boundary that you have created
artificially, by means of definitions you have made up and committed
yourself to, you&rsquo;re standing right in the Presence of your Creator
with the flimsiest of films between you and Him, between you the thinker
and Him the Be-er, Whose Being is supposed to be your experience rather
than something you have knowledge about. And learning is useless because
in the Presence of your Creator, you&rsquo;re in the Presence of
Knowing, you&rsquo;re in the Presence of a Mind that&rsquo;s not
different from yours and you&rsquo;re not engaged in attempting to
maintain a mind separate from His.

So there&rsquo;s no learning that occurs because you&rsquo;ve allowed
Knowing to simply be in you as you. When you do that, it&rsquo;s an act
of absolute effortlessness. It&rsquo;s something that occurs when you
actually completely let go of attempting to be independently assertive,
when you in true humility, yield.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Learning is useless in the Presence of your Creator, Whose
acknowledgement of you and yours of Him so far transcend all learning
that everything you learned is meaningless, replaced forever by the
knowledge of love and its one meaning.
</div>

Everything that you learned in the process of practicing the holy
instant moves you into a perspective where everything you&rsquo;ve
learned becomes meaningless. All the things you&rsquo;ve taught yourself
become meaningless. All the things that your educators have taught you
become meaningless. And you move through the bubble, you have
experienced the transition and Knowing replaces all of the learning that
eventually brought you to the edge of the bubble. The learning related
only to your separated sense of self and its return to its Sanity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your relationship &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the holy relationship you engaged in as the reason for your
practicing the holy instant &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has been uprooted &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; we&rsquo;ll say, at this point &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has been uprooted from the world of shadows, and its unholy
purpose has been safely brought through the barriers of guilt&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I&rsquo;m going to add: of fear &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; washed with forgiveness, and set shining and firmly rooted in
the world of light.
</div>

Because remember, when you go through that bubble you will not go
through alone. You and your Brother will go through. And all of Eternity
and infinity, all of Creation will be blessed by your return. And Its
blessing will fall upon you both as well.

So, your relationship &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has been safely brought through the barriers of guilt, washed
with forgiveness, and set shining and firmly rooted in the world of
light. From there, it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your relationship &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; calls to you to follow the course it took, lifted high above
the darkness, and gently placed before the gates of Heaven.
</div>

You see? It&rsquo;s important to know that this is about you returning
to your right Mind&mdash;you regaining your Sanity. It&rsquo;s equally
essential for you to understand that you will not do that alone, you
will do it in tandem with someone else. And it&rsquo;s in that joining
that the one unified meaning of love will become your experience, and
the other in your relationship, his or her experience. This will keep
you grounded in the process because you cannot on your own ram your way
through your boundary that you have dedicated yourself to create and
maintain, it&rsquo;s the result of having become independent not only
from God but from your Brothers and Sisters. So understand how it works.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant in which you were united &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you and your partner in the holy relationship.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant in which you were united is but the messenger of love,
sent from beyond forgiveness to remind you of all that lies beyond it.
</div>

That&rsquo;s why when you shut up and say, &ldquo;What is the truth
here?&rdquo; you get an answer &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; sent from beyond forgiveness to remind you of all that lies
beyond it. Yet it is through forgiveness that it will BE remembered.
</div>

You see? Unity &hellip; relationship.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And when the memory of God has come to you in the holy place of
forgiveness, you will remember nothing else, and memory will be as
useless as learning&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see? When you have that breakthrough, when the bubble pops,
you won&rsquo;t even remember learning because that of you which was
Real inside the bubble is joined with that of you that is Real on the
outside of the bubble and that which never actually happened is not
available to remember.

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And when the memory of God has come to you in the holy place of
forgiveness, you will remember nothing else, and memory will be as
useless as learning, for your only purpose will be creating.
</div>

Joined with the Father, in which the Love that the Father Is, in which
the infinite Mind that the Father Is, is what constitutes your Being.
You will engage in and be involved in the Movement of the Father
that&rsquo;s inseparable from you and you will participate in and stand
in awe of Creation, which can be fully appreciated and embraced because
there&rsquo;s no little you feeling vulnerable and therefore needing to
protect itself by creating this boundary that protects it from the rest
of Creation. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet this you cannot know until every perception has been cleansed and
purified&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; how is every perception cleansed and purified? By abandoning
thinking, which is where perceptions originate, arise from, and are
maintained.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; this you cannot know until every perception has been cleansed
and purified&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; but not something you have to ferret out. It will be cleansed
and purified by the absence of thinking &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and finally removed forever.
</div>

Ah-h &hellip; peace &hellip; peace is the underlying and overriding
experience when the divorce is annulled, when your independence is a
non-existence&mdash;a non-existent thing of the past that no longer
exists. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forgiveness removes only the UNTRUE&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; this is what you cannot find out if you do not take the hand of
the Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more than your right
Mind&mdash;and firmly and steadfastly hold It as It moves you through
the apparently fearsome experience of breaking the boundary, which was
your initial decision to get the divorce, and undo it forever.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forgiveness removes only the UNTRUE, lifting the shadows from the
world&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; of your imagination &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and carrying it, safe and sure within its gentleness, to the
bright world of new and clean perception.
</div>

Sounds almost like, sanitary. But it&rsquo;s clean, clear perception
because it&rsquo;s your experience of the Father&rsquo;s Meaning that He
is embodying in all of Creation, which it is now your joyous activity to
participate in, by giving your attention to. Beautiful.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is your purpose NOW. And it is there that peace awaits you.
</div>

Where? On the other side of the holy instant. Where? On the other side
of the flimsy boundary&mdash;the bubble&mdash;that seems to imply that
you are what is inside and you are not what is outside. Now are we the
Sons and Daughters of God. Now fear and preoccupation with what you
think you&rsquo;ll lose is all that keeps you from daring to do the one
thing that will help you cross the threshold, and that is hold tight to
the Love that embraces you and is called the Holy Spirit, and let it
move you through this last part of the foundation of your delusion and
your false interpretation of the Kingdom of Heaven and all that
accompanies it: sin, sickness, death on and on and on.

So, the holy instant is the means of the miracle. The holy instant,
we&rsquo;ll say, is the womb in which the sudden shift of perception
called &ldquo;a miracle&rdquo; occurs. And that is the whole point of
this book.

When I say I love you all, you have no idea at the moment how total it
is, how full it is, how supportive it is, how healing and
transformational it is. But I do. And you will too. And that is what I
am helping move you toward.

Again, I must remind you, do not imagine that this will be a long
process that will occur in the distant future. Now are you still the
holy Son of God. You&rsquo;re neither behind the point of perfection nor
advancing toward it. You&rsquo;re at that point and must understand
yourself therefrom. And you will, when you practice the holy instant and
ask the Father or the Holy Spirit, &ldquo;What is the truth here? What
is the perfection that I&rsquo;m neither behind or advancing
toward?&rdquo; and demand an answer.

And you know what that means? It doesn&rsquo;t mean be arrogant, it
simply means neglect to argue against the answer, neglect to think that
you know better than to expect to have that kind of a divine and holy
experience. You see?

I love you. And I look forward to being with you next week.


[^1]: T18.10 The Passing of the Dream

