---
title: May 20, 2012
ref: "T19.1 Healing and the Mind"
alink: "/acim/text/19/chap1901/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

A new Chapter [Nineteen]: 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Beyond the Body*[^1]
</div>

That simply refers to what we&rsquo;ve been talking about for the last
couple of weeks: Moving beyond body identification to Mind
identification, where you recognize that what you Are is conscious
awareness in which the experience of body is going on along with all of
Creation.

The function of the two-step is to move you beyond the body.

And so, beginning in the book:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We said before that, when a situation has been dedicated wholly to
truth, peace is inevitable.

When a situation has been dedicated wholly to truth &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; well, when a situation has been dedicated wholly to truth it
means you have abandoned your dedication to your best concepts, to your
best judgments, to your best thinking.

So when you have abandoned thinking, when you have moved into the
silence where silence is the only thing there is&mdash;awareness is the
only thing there is&mdash;without a subject or topic of awareness, there
always is peace. That is what meditation accomplishes: Moving you to
that place where you&rsquo;ve abandoned your preference to your best
judgments and your best thinking, in fact, the act of thinking itself.

So it&rsquo;s not terribly complicated to dedicate something wholly to
truth. It means, like I said, to withdraw your dedication to your best
thinking. So it&rsquo;s simply moving into the silence. Not complicated.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Its attainment &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; peace &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is the criterion by which the wholeness of the dedication can
be safely assumed.
</div>

In other words, if you have arrived at a place where no thoughts are
going on, where pure awareness is occurring, you&rsquo;re aware of
everything that is going on, but you&rsquo;re having no response to it
other than being conscious of it.

So the attainment of that shows you that the dedication has been
complete.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet we also said that peace without faith will NEVER be attained, for
what is wholly dedicated to truth as its only goal is brought to truth
BY faith.
</div>

You are, everyone is absolutely smitten by his or her capacity to think
and reason and come to conclusions. In fact, many believe that the act
of thinking is what constitutes being conscious because they have yet to
discover that they can be in the silence without thinking and be totally
conscious.

Because of the dedication to thinking and reasoning and always being
alert, so that you can protect yourself, you never bring faith into
play. You&rsquo;re always negating the need for faith by being on top of
things&mdash;in charge of things yourself&mdash;by virtue of your
thinking. But the simple fact is, that because you rely upon it for your
safety&mdash;your capacity to think&mdash;it takes faith to be willing
to abandon it.

Surprising maybe &hellip; but it&rsquo;s the truth. You will never
arrive at the experience of peace, without faith that everything will
not collapse while you do it, without faith that you will not lose
control or go crazy in the process.

So faith is always essential to arriving at a place where you are
totally dedicated to peace because you are totally unhooked to your
self-protection. So faith is necessary but it isn&rsquo;t a humungous
amount that is needed. A little bit of faith &hellip; a little bit of
willingness to become silent is met with positive results.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet we also said that peace without faith will NEVER be attained, for
what is wholly dedicated to truth as its only goal is brought to truth
BY faith. This faith encompasses everyone involved, for only thus the
situation is perceived as meaningful and as [a] whole.
</div>

When you&rsquo;re doing the two-step, when you&rsquo;re willing to
shut-up, when you&rsquo;re willing to say in the silence that ensues:
&ldquo;Father, what is the truth here?&rdquo; you&rsquo;re in a place
without biases, without evaluations, without things that are better or
worse than other things.

This brings everything into Oneness. This brings everything into the
unity that it has always been in but which you haven&rsquo;t perceived
because you&rsquo;ve been so busy protecting yourself by means of clear
correct thinking. It&rsquo;s a shame.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And everyone must be involved in it&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in this willingness for peace and this experience of peace
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; or else your faith is limited, and your dedication incomplete.
</div>

Why? Because you&rsquo;re still giving preference to some of your
capacity to evaluate and to make sure while you&rsquo;re daring to be
silent that you&rsquo;re not going to be vulnerable and end up being
abused, attacked or mistreated.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every situation, properly perceived, becomes an opportunity to heal the
Son of God.
</div>

Every situation properly perceived becomes an opportunity to do the
two-step. Every situation&mdash;anything that happens, anything that you
are experiencing&mdash;is a prime opportunity for you to express
curiosity and ask to understand beyond your present understanding and
say, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here? Father what is your
Perspective about this?&rdquo; And at the bottom line, what you&rsquo;re
doing is using every experience as an opportunity to return to your
Sanity. It&rsquo;s that simple and yet, that profound, which makes it
utterly justifiable to spend your day constantly asking, &ldquo;What is
the truth here?&rdquo; so that you might observe what&rsquo;s going on
from your Sanity and behave relative to the situation from your Sanity.
And thus have a healed experience in which harmony reigns&mdash;peace
governs. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every situation, properly perceived, becomes &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; I&rsquo;m going to say, a wonderful &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; opportunity to heal the Son of God.
</div>

&hellip; to see your Brother as the Son of God and not who he thinks he
is, and not who you think he is. That means that every moment of your
conscious awareness is a moment primed for redemption &hellip; a
glorious thing. Something which, if you take advantage of it, will
provide the occasion for healing after healing after healing. A
wonderful thing to participate in.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every situation, properly perceived, becomes an opportunity to heal the
Son of God. And he is healed BECAUSE you offered faith to him, giving
him to the Holy Spirit and releasing him from every demand your ego
would make of him.
</div>

Now those of you who are students of the Course, I am sure have on many
occasions, heard someone say, &ldquo;Well, my daughter or so-in-so was
having a problem and I turned them over to the Holy Spirit &hellip; I
said, &lsquo;Holy Spirit, I turn my daughter over to You. Holy Spirit, I
turn this situation over to You.&rsquo;&rdquo; And then they went along
their merry way, thinking that&rsquo;s what it meant.

No. It requires a little more involvement than that. Your Brother, the
Son of God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is healed BECAUSE you offered faith to him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not doubt, not pessimism, not your worst judgments, not even
your conditioned good judgments that didn&rsquo;t necessarily have
anything at all to do with your Brother but you had adopted them as
definitions. So, he &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is healed BECAUSE you offered faith &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not faithlessness &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to him, giving him to the Holy Spirit and releasing him from
every demand your ego would make of him.
</div>

In other words, instead of approaching your Brother, based upon your
best judgments and your best concepts about him, you release him from
that by turning your attention to the Holy Spirit and saying,
&ldquo;Father, what is the truth here? Holy Spirit, what is the truth
here? Holy Spirit, reveal to me the holy Son of God that neither he nor
I is seeing completely this moment.&rdquo; You see?

You don&rsquo;t take your Brother out there, and sort of shove him off
on the Holy Spirit. You don&rsquo;t just turn him over to the Holy
Spirit and leave the rest up to the Holy Spirit. No. You turn your
attention to the Holy Spirit. You say, &ldquo;Father &hellip; &rdquo;
you say, &ldquo;Holy Spirit, I want to know the truth about my Brother
so that I might stand in faith with him and be part of the
transformation&mdash;the healing that is called for&mdash;because
I&rsquo;ve been willing to pay attention to You, Holy Spirit, in order
to bless my Brother with Your Perspective, because I&rsquo;ve been
willing to listen &hellip; because I&rsquo;ve been willing to be
involved so that You, Holy Spirit, and I may be agents of change on
behalf of my Brother.&rdquo; You see?

That&rsquo;s what giving it to the Holy Spirit means. It means no longer
giving him to your best judgments or worst. But instead, giving your
attention to the Holy Spirit to Know the truth about him. So that you
might be the one who extends the consciousness of truth that embodies
the faith you have in what he truly is, rather than what he believes he
is and even rather than what you always thought he was. That&rsquo;s the
key.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Thus do you see him free&hellip;
</div>

No. Thus, do you see him free. You see? It doesn&rsquo;t matter that
&ldquo;thus does the Holy Spirit see him free&rdquo; because you
released him to the Holy Spirit. No.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Thus do you see him free, and in this vision does the Holy Spirit share.
</div>

You&rsquo;re joined with the Holy Spirit, that which is nothing more
than your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And since He shares it He has given it, and so He heals through YOU.
</div>

Now if you turn your Brother over to the Holy Spirit or his problem and
you go off on down the street and tend to your business, how can He
possibly heal through you when that is the means, that is the purpose of
the practice of the two-step and the holy instant &hellip; so that you
might be involved in Brotherhood.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is this joining Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in a united purpose which makes this purpose real &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you might say, which actualizes this purpose &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because you make it Whole.
</div>

You make it whole by not walking off from it and leaving the problem
with the Holy Spirit to solve. You make it whole by being present as
part of it. Without you, without your attention, without your care,
there&rsquo;s a black hole. There&rsquo;s an emptiness where you are
supposed to be fulfilling your part in the wholeness and thereby
discovering that the wholeness of Creation is not in the slightest bit
separate from you.

It&rsquo;s very important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And this IS healing. The body is healed, because you came without it
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning, no longer identifying with it and as it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The body is healed, because you came without it and joined the Mind in
which all healing rests.
</div>

In other words, you shifted from body identification to Mind
identification in which all healing rests.

New Section: 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Healing and the Mind

The body cannot heal, because it cannot make itself sick. It NEEDS no
healing. Its health or sickness depends entirely on how the mind
perceives it, and the purpose which the mind would use it FOR.
</div>

Now if you have stepped beyond the body by shifting to Mind
identification, then you will be using the body to identify the purpose
which the Holy Spirit puts forth and gives for you to act out. It
therefore, serves the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s purpose, which is
transformation, regeneration and redemption: Healing&mdash;the calling
forth of the perfection that the Father, in the Movement of Creation,
created and which, never for an instant, has been altered. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Its health or sickness depends entirely on how the mind perceives it,
and the purpose which the mind would use it FOR. And it is obvious that
a segment of the mind CAN see itself as separated from the Universal
Purpose.
</div>

It really is obvious isn&rsquo;t it, you&rsquo;re not Awake.
You&rsquo;re not experiencing invulnerability. You&rsquo;re not
experiencing interminable and unalterable peace.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[And] it is obvious that a segment of the mind &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the part you&rsquo;re using right now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; CAN see itself as separated from the Universal Purpose.
</div>

It&rsquo;s possible for a part of the mind to conceive that it has its
own purpose and reason for being. And in fact, has a &ldquo;God-ordained
right&rdquo; to practice and exercise it and succeed at its goals. So
indeed, it is obvious.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When this occurs&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; this apparent separation &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the body becomes its weapon&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the mind&rsquo;s weapon &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; used AGAINST this Purpose &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; this universal purpose &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to demonstrate the "fact" that separation has occurred.
</div>

&ldquo;Look at me! I&rsquo;m on my own! I&rsquo;m real and I&rsquo;m
going to do whatever I damn well please!&rdquo; You see? The body is
used to prove this stance, this imaginative but not actual stance.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The body thus becomes the instrument of illusion, acting accordingly;
seeing what is not there, hearing what truth has never said, and
behaving insanely, being imprisoned BY insanity.
</div>

There cannot be too many of you who have been joining me, who would
argue this choice of words any longer. But you see, as long as you think
you are the governing factor, the governing force, the authority and you
think that you are here to make everything in your image, reflecting
your likeness and your thoughts and your definitions, you are insane.
Because your choice to see only what you believe constitutes a
preoccupation with yourself, when everything, including you, has Meaning
separate and apart from your definitions, Meaning embodied by the
Father&rsquo;s Expression of His Infinite Perfection.

When all you are seeing is what you want to see and you are wandering
around in the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven seeing a material world
and universe, you are experiencing temporary insanity, which it is your
Birthright not to be experiencing.

Nevertheless, until you abandon this faith in your best judgments and
your right to act independently as you believe you are, you have some
work to do. Correction is called for and will continue to be called for
until you answer the call. Practice some self-discipline. Shift from
self-protection to the expression and embrace of Love. And by-so-doing,
are transformed by the renewing of your mind, and you Wake up, and you
fulfill the purpose of the holy instant, and you have the joy of being
Whole.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not overlook our earlier statement that faithlessness leads straight
to illusions.
</div>

What is faithlessness? It&rsquo;s your dependence and devotion to the
best judgments you can come up with, where you are not taking a single
moment to silence your mind and inquire of the divine One within you to
know what the truth is, and to arrive at the experience of truth without
having relied in anyway upon a supposed capacity you have to think for
yourself and be on purpose and experience fulfillment.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not overlook our earlier statement that faithlessness leads straight
to illusions.
</div>

Thinking and reasoning on your own leads directly away from the
conscious experience of truth and the conscious experience of Reality.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For faithlessness is the perception of a brother as a body&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; just as you experience yourself as a body.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For faithlessness is the perception of a brother as a body, and the body
cannot be used for purposes of union.
</div>

What is it that can unite? Mind&mdash;that conscious awareness in which
Love is the motive and action. That is the only thing that can embrace
and that is the only thing that can use the body for purposes of
expressing embrace and safety and the absence of need for
self-protection.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If, then, you see your brother AS a body, you have established a
condition in which uniting with him becomes impossible.
</div>

But you will inevitably say that your Brother and what&rsquo;s wrong
with him and how he behaves makes your uniting with him impossible. Not
true.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your faithlessness to him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your unwillingness to desire to see the Holy Spirit in him,
your reluctance to see his holiness &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has separated you from him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and always will separate you from him &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and kept you BOTH apart from being healed.
</div>

Healing is the point. The experience of joined wholeness is the point.
And the only time joining can occur is when your thinking isn&rsquo;t
getting in the way, is when your thinking has been set aside so there is
room for the Holy Spirit to register with you and correct your
perception and provide you with the joy of seeing who your Brother or
Sister truly is, so that your spontaneous behavior then will embody that
perspective and heal your Brother or your Sister, because here she knows
that he needs or she needs provide no defense and therefore no armor
against your presence, against the presence of the Love that you are
being because you did engage with the Holy Spirit and not your best
thinking.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your faithlessness has &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and always will &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your faithlessness has thus opposed the Holy Spirit's purpose, and
brought illusions, centered on the BODY, to stand between you. And the
body WILL seem to be sick, for you have made of it an "enemy" of
healing, and the opposite of truth.
</div>

And how have you done this? By identifying with the body, and as the
body. And then identifying your Brother or Sister, who is in need of
help, as a body. And in that misperception of yourself and your Brother,
there is no link through which to join in union and so you deny healing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It cannot be difficult to realize that faith must be the opposite of
faithlessness. Yet the difference in how they operate is less apparent,
though it follows directly from the fundamental difference in what they
are.
</div>

The difference between faith and faithlessness is that faith is the act
and the state of mind which reaches beyond all present perceptions with
the expectation of seeing a closer approximation of truth about your
Brother or Sister. Faithlessness, on the other hand, does not involve
any reach beyond the present sense of things and thus binds you and your
Brother in a place where no change can occur.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Faithlessness would always limit and attack; faith would remove all
limitations and make whole.
</div>

And you are the fulcrum. You are the choosing point. Which are you
choosing for? Your historical best judgments? Or your non-historical,
fresh, original, unpredictable influx or awareness of what is truly true
of your Brother, which transforms you and him? It&rsquo;s your choice.
It&rsquo;s up to you.

Practicing the holy instant is choosing for the unexpected influx of the
conscious awareness of truth that changes you forever and lays the
groundwork for your Brother or Sister to change. That&rsquo;s the way it
works. And it works that way because you don&rsquo;t or didn&rsquo;t
turn things over to the Holy Spirit and go along on your merry way, but
stood present and available and involved for the purpose of hearing what
the Holy Spirit would reveal to you because it&rsquo;s your function to
be the place where healing occurs. It&rsquo;s your function to be the
place where the actualization of God&rsquo;s Presence occurs wonderfully
because you were willing to allow it.

It&rsquo;s that simple. It&rsquo;s that loving. It&rsquo;s that kind.
It&rsquo;s that meaningful.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Faithlessness &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; preoccupation with your best thinking &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; would interpose illusions between the Son of God and his
Creator; faith would remove all obstacles that seem to rise between
them.
</div>

It wouldn&rsquo;t settle for them. The seeming rise would not be
believed. The seeming rise would be challenged. And love would promote
the steadfastness and patience that would provide the opportunity for
clarity to come where confusion had disturbed.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Faithlessness &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your best judgment, your best thinking.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Faithlessness is wholly dedicated to illusions; faith wholly to truth.
</div>

Why is faithlessness dedicated to illusions? Because it&rsquo;s
dedicated to thinking, which has been used to imagine meanings while
ignoring the Meanings that every single bit of Creation embodies and
expresses at the impulse of Its Creator.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Partial dedication is impossible.
</div>

You can&rsquo;t be a little bit in the silence and still be thinking a
little bit.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Truth is the ABSENCE of illusion;
</div>

&hellip; like silence, peace is the absence of self-assertion, in which
peace reins.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Truth is the ABSENCE of illusion; illusion the ABSENCE of truth.
</div>

Again, I must remind everyone that this is all not just simplistic, but
actually simple. Every one of you is capable of being, of meditating and
experiencing peace. It&rsquo;s not complicated. It doesn&rsquo;t take
years of study.

It takes simply sitting down, relaxing, being present in the present,
breathing or saying a mantra and giving your attention to the sensation
of the air going through your nostrils or the sound of the word, of the
mantra, and just letting your attention rest with that alone. And if you
find yourself suddenly thinking &hellip; be aware of it &hellip; give
yourself permission to think about it after the meditation and return to
the mantra or the sensation of the air as it passes through your
nostrils. And you will inevitably find that there will be a point where
you will not be feeling the sensation of the air, you will not be saying
the mantra. Nothing at all will be happening except pure awareness of
everything that is going on in your environment&mdash;silence and peace.

You can make the mistake, we&rsquo;ll say, of doing that and enjoying
the experience and then immediately jumping up and going back to your
normal activities. Or you can acknowledge and recognize this peace, this
silence that you&rsquo;re experiencing does not have to be abandoned.
And you can gently re-emerge into the activities of your day bringing
that peace with you. And the more you do this the longer the period of
time in which the peace will remain with you and bless every activity
that you engage in because perspective without fear is governing.

So what we&rsquo;re talking about here is simple, easily attainable. But
it requires a constant choice to commit to the peace, to commit to the
joining with the Holy Spirit in the silence for the purpose of
experiencing the revelation of what is true and what is Real that allows
you to be new and allows your behavior to be new, where Love is what
finds gentle expression all the time.

I love you all and I look forward to being with you next time. And in
the meantime, practice the two-step more and more frequently because you
really have nothing better to do than to take advantage of every moment
that provides you with the opportunity to choose for the truth and be
healed. You can do it right here in what appears to be a mundane world
that holds no promise. That&rsquo;s not the truth. Okay.

[^1]: T19.1 Healing and the Mind

