---
title: Jun 3, 2012
ref: "T19.1 Healing and the Mind"
alink: "/acim/text/19/chap1901/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

In the last few weeks we&rsquo;ve been talking about faith and
faithlessness with a rather narrow definition applied to them, one which
makes things simpler.

Simply put, faithlessness is when each one of you leans upon your own
understanding. Faithlessness is when you never reach beyond the meanings
and definitions which you employ in order to &ldquo;understand&rdquo;
life. Faithlessness is when you never have to bring anything more into
the picture than the confidence you place in your memory and in your
skill at manipulating ideas, so as to, through the use of logic, come to
conclusions that are undeniable &hellip; conclusions that require you
not to employ faith at all. You see?

Faithlessness is a totally self-centered act.

Faith, on the other hand, is what the Course is all about. Faithlessness
is what life has been all about up until the illumination that the
Course has brought forth. Faith is when you silence your self-will, when
you silence your best thinking. When you stop relying upon yourself and
you reach beyond. It&rsquo;s the practice of the holy instant or the
two-step, as I&rsquo;ve been calling it and describing it.

It&rsquo;s when you abandon faithlessness, meaning self-centeredness and
you reach beyond and you say, &ldquo;Father&rdquo;&mdash;meaning God,
the Source of all Being, or Holy Spirit&mdash;&ldquo;What is the truth
here? I want to see the truth &hellip; that I want to see the more of
what God is Being, I want to see the more of what Reality is, right here
where I have been seeing what I&rsquo;ve defined as a material world and
universe. In other words, if this is more than a material world and
universe, if this truly is the Kingdom of Heaven misperceived by me,
then I sincerely and committedly abandon everything I&rsquo;ve imagined.
I devalue it and I make commitment to reaching toward the Father, toward
the Holy Spirit&mdash;which is nothing more than my right Mind&mdash;so
that I might escape the results of faithlessness, so that I might see
instead of be blind &hellip; that I might Awaken and no longer
dream.&rdquo;

So you see, faith and faithlessness are really black and white. Just
like being the holy Son of God or being an orphan because you said,
&ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather get a divorce from you and determine
what everything is myself.&rdquo; You see?

It&rsquo;s black or white. It&rsquo;s this or that. And you know what?
If anyone is truly interested in Awakening to the truth, they are going
to have to, with determination, abandon the way they have been
functioning up until this moment and bring something new into play.

Now what you&rsquo;re going to bring into play isn&rsquo;t really
something new, it isn&rsquo;t something you&rsquo;ve never heard of
before, but it&rsquo;s something you&rsquo;ve neglected to employ
because you gave preference to something else. This thing that you need
to employ is faith. And because faithlessness, meaning your typical
everyday way of looking at things, because it is not contributing in any
way to your returning to your Sanity, you must be willing to refuse to
employ or utilize it because it undermines whatever degree of faith you
might bring into play&mdash;or try to bring into play.

This is very important.

Now, the last sentence, the last time we were together was:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Truth is the ABSENCE of illusion, illusion the ABSENCE of truth.[^1]
</div>

Once again, very black and white &hellip; right?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Both cannot BE together, nor perceived in the same place. To dedicate
yourself to both is to set up a goal forever impossible to attain, for
part of it is sought through the body, thought of as a means for seeking
out reality through attack, while the other part would heal, and
therefore calls upon the mind and NOT the body.
</div>

Now we read:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; part of it is sought through the body&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and what that means is that part of it is sought through the
body as you have defined it: a material organism, not a divine Idea held
in the Mind of God, illuminating and expressing the divinity of the Idea
that the Father is expressing as that Identity. You see? This applies to
all bodies, all forms.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The inevitable compromise&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; when you want to have truth and illusion side-by-side, and
employ a little bit of that one and a little bit of the other as it
suits your purpose and your fancy as you go through your day&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; The inevitable compromise between the two is the belief that
the BODY must be healed, and not the mind.
</div>

When the mind was where the decision was made, &ldquo;Father, I want a
divorce. Father, I want to determine the meaning of everything.&rdquo;
See? And in that act, followed by commitment, which also was mental, you
fell asleep. Suddenly, instead of all of Creation being the total
Meaning of Being&mdash;meaning your Being and your inseparability from
all of It&mdash;all of a sudden you were identified solely with the
specific identification of you, which is part of the infinity of
Creation.

And you said, &ldquo;Oh-h, what happened? I&rsquo;m a body, I
didn&rsquo;t expect that, but hey, I&rsquo;ll give a different
definition for that and I&rsquo;ll make it a definition that can
contribute to my being the ultimate that I can be, as a result of my use
of my mind to define myself and my world.&rdquo; You see? &hellip; Ah,
now there was the initial act of faithlessness. And the result of it was
identification as a body, an illusion&mdash;not the truth of
You&mdash;but something you couldn&rsquo;t escape when you decided to
think for yourself and determine things for yourself instead of being
co-creator with God, by being the presence of that which recognized God
in everything and acknowledged God because you saw and experienced It,
thus confirming Creation and being co-creator of It by your recognition
and confirmation of It.

Now again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The inevitable compromise &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; when you&rsquo;re trying to have illusion and truth be together
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; The inevitable compromise is the belief that the BODY must be
healed, and NOT the mind.
</div>

Even though, as I just described, the mind is where the problem occurred
and therefore is the place where it must be resolved.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For this divided goal has given both &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning truth and illusion &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has given both an equal reality, which could be possible only
if the mind is limited to the body&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning only if you have arrived at a point where you think
that your mind is in a brain, in a skull, a part of the body, rather
than being That in which the body, the brain, the fingernails,
everything and all of Creation abide and have their actual Being as
divine Ideas to be recognized for what they Are and acknowledged for
what they Are as the Presence of God in motion called
&ldquo;Creation.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[For] this divided goal has given both an equal reality, which could be
possible only if the mind is limited to the body, and divided into
little parts of seeming wholeness, but without connection. This will
not harm the body&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; this is very important &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but it WILL keep the delusional thought system in the MIND.
</div>

Now, to have been practicing faithlessness, we&rsquo;ll say, for as long
as you can remember, because at the moment you&rsquo;ve forgotten that
you&rsquo;re the holy Son or Daughter of God for as long as you have
been practicing faithlessness, which we will say is forever, the body
has been what you thought you were. I don&rsquo;t care how many
incarnations you might have experienced, the fundamental of each one of
those apparent lifetimes has been identification as a body&mdash;a body
that is subject to sin, sickness and death&mdash;a body that does not
seem to identify what&rsquo;s true about you, what&rsquo;s true about
your holiness. It doesn&rsquo;t identify eternality, does it. But
that&rsquo;s because you have identified it with meanings you have
imagined, that have arisen out of an absence of connection with your
Source. As a result, your body seems to be able to be destructive,
destructible and mortal.

Now here&rsquo;s the thing:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This will not harm the body&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you can live as many lifetimes as you want, you may believe
that you are a body and behave defensively and use it to attack the
world so as to better define it, you can do that but this will not harm
the body.

What it means is, that it will not harm what the body actually is, which
is an Idea held in the Mind of God, moved by, enlivened by the Movement,
an action of omnipotence. What it truly is cannot be harmed. And the
evidence you have of that, if you believe in reincarnation, the evidence
of that is that even though it seems to die because of this disease or
that accident, why, you still exist. And you still exist again and you
still exist again. So you see, it doesn&rsquo;t harm the body, but until
you abandon the definitions you have applied to it, you will seem to not
see God in it. You will seem to not see eternality in it even though the
repetitiousness of it [chuckle] is a demonstration of its eternality.

So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This will not harm the body&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; all of this trying to make truth equal to illusion and try to
employ them both and let them be side-by-side &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; This will not harm the body, but it WILL keep the delusional
thought system in the MIND.
</div>

Because the delusion can&rsquo;t be going on anywhere else. And so
it&rsquo;s not going on anywhere else. And what the Course is teaching
and what we&rsquo;re illuminating is the fact that the solution to the
human condition lies in the shift from identification with the body to
identification with Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Here, then&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is healing needed. And it is here that healing IS.
</div>

It simply is nowhere else.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For God gave healing not APART from sickness, nor established remedy
where sickness cannot be.
</div>

So you see, God didn&rsquo;t place the remedy in the physical universe.
God didn&rsquo;t place the remedy in the body. God established the
remedy where the flaw emerged, where the unintelligence was expressed
and that&rsquo;s in the mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They are TOGETHER, and when they are SEEN together, all attempts to keep
both truth and illusion in the mind, where both MUST be, are recognized
as dedication to ILLUSION;
</div>

&hellip; you see? Once this becomes clear to you, you&rsquo;ll see that
illusion is a false perception and truth is a true perception. Illusion
is the false perception of Reality and truth is the true perception of
Reality. Very simple. Since they&rsquo;re both perceptions, they
can&rsquo;t actually co-exist in an intelligent mind. They can&rsquo;t
exist in the divine Mind. And when you see that clearly, you will
recognize that it&rsquo;s foolish, meaningless, to continue to try to
incorporate the human condition into the divine condition or to have
divinity alter the human condition but still leave it human. You see?

And so it will become clear to you what you need to do. It will become
clear that you need to address this in the mind &hellip; in your mind.
And the way you address it is through the use of the holy instant, is
through the use of the two-step, where you shut up your mind and you
abide in the consciousness of peace or of silence. And in that peace you
reach out, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here?&rdquo; You see?
&ldquo;Holy Spirit, what is the God&rsquo;s honest truth here?&rdquo;
And then you maintain the silence&mdash;you push against the silence
instead of reverting to your well established habits of thinking. You
remain devoted to Knowing the truth, having the truth revealed to you.

And I have been here all along to reinforce in your minds the fact that
when you ask, the Father answers. When you reach out to your divinity,
meaning the Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more than your right
Mind&mdash;It answers because integrity and unity is what characterizes
Being and therefore, You.

And so you must recognize the &ldquo;black&rdquo; and
&ldquo;white&rdquo; of it, the &ldquo;this&rdquo; and &ldquo;that&rdquo;
of it and choose for that and remain steadfast with that choice. You
see? It&rsquo;s really very simple.

What seems to make it complicated is that you have great investments in
your best judgments and the definitions and meanings you have applied to
life. And they are all associated with your becoming a more perfected,
valuable entity who has integrity in his own right. And so it&rsquo;s
difficult to let go of faithlessness because it seems to be the
abandonment of the possibility of your integrity in your own right. It
thus, seems to be dangerous to your well-being.

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; sickness and healing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; are TOGETHER, and when they are SEEN together, all attempts to
keep both truth and illusion in the mind, where both MUST be, are
recognized as dedication to ILLUSION;
</div>

&hellip; that recognition is called &ldquo;learning.&rdquo; And it puts
you in a new place able to be on a new basis. So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; when they are SEEN together, all attempts to keep both truth
and illusion in the mind, where they [both] MUST be, are recognized as
dedication to ILLUSION;
</div>

&hellip; it&rsquo;s foolish to try to keep them together &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and given up when brought to truth, and seen as totally
unreconcilable with truth, in any respect or in any way.
</div>

The human condition and the experience of holiness are irreconcilable.
They&rsquo;re not reconcilable. They will not be brought together.
Misperception will be given up for true perception. They will not seem
to exist side-by-side as choices anymore, once you make the choice for
truth with commitment and persistence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Truth and illusion have NO connection.
</div>

Faithlessness and faith have no connection. The orphanage and the
Kingdom of Heaven have no connection. What seemed to be two will turn
into one when the other is abandoned. That&rsquo;s what this is all
about. And this is what the practice of the holy instant is for.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Truth and illusion have NO connection. This will remain forever true,
however much you seek to connect them.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh, I would love to be anointed by God. I would love to be
inspired by God. I would love to be in-filled by an experience of
divinity so that I might help my fellowman, so that I might transform
this world from the chaos and the conflict that it seems to be in the
middle of.&rdquo;

Well, I&rsquo;ll tell you something: That&rsquo;s trying to combine
truth with illusion, faith with faithlessness. Because you can&rsquo;t
hold onto a world in turmoil to be fixed up, while you reach for that
which is unlike it because it&rsquo;s holy, because it&rsquo;s divine,
so that in your grasp of it you might be able, with your feet firmly in
the orphanage, with your feet firmly in the land of
faithlessness&mdash;meaning the land of the definitions you&rsquo;ve
given to everything&mdash;you can&rsquo;t do that and that&rsquo;s not
what the holy instant is for and that&rsquo;s not what Waking up is for.
Because when you make this commitment and persist in this commitment
until revelation occurs in you, because you&rsquo;ve asked, &ldquo;What
is the more of what God is being here than what I&rsquo;m seeing?&rdquo;
you won&rsquo;t see the world through the lens of your definitions and
meanings anymore.

And so, although you will recognize the &ldquo;call for love&rdquo; and
you will know how to bring that call of love forth, because the Father
has illuminated it to you, correction will occur. But it won&rsquo;t be
the fixing up of the old, it will be the correcting of the misperception
because it&rsquo;s not the body or world that needs to be healed, but
the mind which is misperceiving. The mind, I will say, whose Birthright
is to be seeing everything perfectly with the Father&rsquo;s Perception
in its divinity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Truth and illusion have NO connection. This will remain forever true,
however much you seek to connect them. But illusions are ALWAYS
connected, as is truth.
</div>

All of truth is connected and all of illusion is connected.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Each is united, a complete thought system, but totally disconnected to
each other.
</div>

You see? Faithlessness and faith are totally disconnected. The orphanage
and the Sonship are totally disconnected. But they don&rsquo;t
constitute two completely separate things. They constitute two
completely separate perceptions. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Where there is no overlap, there separation must be complete.
</div>

And this is repetitious, but it needs to become clearer than it ever has
been before: That Reality and unreality are totally isolated from each
other, illusion and truth are totally isolated from each other, being an
orphan and being a holy Son of God are totally separate from each other.
There is no connection. There never will be an overlapping. There will
be mind misperceiving, suddenly through faith beginning to perceive
truly.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Where there is no overlap, there separation must be complete. And to
perceive this is to recognize where separation IS&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning, in the mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and where it must be healed.
</div>

Meaning, in the mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The result of an idea is never separate from its source. The IDEA of
separation produced the body&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; produced the body constituted of the definitions you made up
about it. And the definitions never included God anywhere.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The IDEA of separation produced &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; I&rsquo;m going to say, your definition of &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the body, and remains connected to it, making it sick because
of its identification with it.
</div>

[Big sigh] That which is not connected to its Source seems not to have
the qualities, characteristics or actualities of its Source. Without
God, the body is what you&rsquo;re experiencing. And sickness and death
are inevitable.

But remember, this will not harm the body. Okay, so maybe it won&rsquo;t
harm the body, but if it&rsquo;s not harming the body and you&rsquo;re
just sort of stuck in a &ldquo;Groundhog Day,&rdquo; constantly
repeating the meanings that lead to the end of the day called
&ldquo;death&rdquo; and the beginning of the next day, which is the
repeat of the previous day &hellip; if that&rsquo;s all that&rsquo;s
happening, man, you have justification&mdash;perfect justification to do
something different.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You think you are protecting the body by hiding this connection&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the connection between your idea of it and the result of your
idea of it &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for this concealment seems to keep your identification safe
from the "attack" of truth.
</div>

Whew! Like I said, the more committed you are to asking to know what the
truth is here where your body is, where all form is, the closer you get
to actually letting the answer in, the more you will be uncomfortable,
the more you will experience fear, because it will require you to
abandon your attempt to make yourself a successful independent entity in
your own right. And that to you&mdash;again, to make it perfectly
clear&mdash;constitutes a terminal violation of your integrity. Of
course, that means the integrity of the definition you have given to who
you are supposed to be and become. So you become frightened because
you&rsquo;re going to lose your integrity or the potential of capturing
it and that will mean you will be nothing. You see?

That&rsquo;s what you think truth will uncover, that&rsquo;s what you
think faith will uncover, not realizing that what has covered you
up&mdash;your misperceptions&mdash;will dissolve and you will find
yourself Sane, whole, mentally clear as the co-creator of Creation
forever.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you but understood how much this strange concealment has hurt your
mind, and how confused your own identification has become because of it!
You do not see how great the devastation wrought by your faithlessness.
</div>

In other words, your preoccupation with your self-interests and your own
ideas and thoughts.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For faithlessness is an attack which seems to be justified by its
RESULTS. For by withholding faith, you see what IS unworthy of it, and
cannot look beyond the barrier to what is joined with you.
</div>

It binds you, it keeps you bound, it keeps you ignorant, it keeps you
unconscious, it keeps you misperceiving and as a result, not knowing
where you really are, what you really are or what the nature of what
everything is. But listen:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To have faith is to heal.
</div>

To have faith is an answer, we will say, to have faith is the answer.
It&rsquo;s the fulfillment of your Being. It&rsquo;s you coming into the
full, unified, conscious awareness of who you Are as the Presence of
Love, as the Presence of the Father, as the Presence of That which never
was meant to experience lack or suffering or jealousy or hate &hellip;
or sickness or death.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To have faith is to heal. It is the sign that you have accepted the
Atonement for yourself&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see? It&rsquo;s the sign that you&rsquo;ve been willing to
push against the silence, but not by thinking. To push against the
silence by listening ever more attentively and ever more consistently
until the very act of embracing the unknown, by bringing your attention
to it, convinces you that there is indeed another activity you can
engage in than faithlessness. And as that becomes more actualized in
your mind, it precipitates the breakthrough.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By faith, you offer the gift of freedom from the past, which YOU
received.
</div>

When you do it, you are released from the past&mdash;meaning your
faithlessness, all of your thinking, all of your judgments, all of your
determinations as to what everything means.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not use anything your brother has done before to condemn him NOW.
You freely choose to overlook his errors, looking past all barriers
between your self and his, and seeing them as one.
</div>

That&rsquo;s what happens when you push against the silence.
That&rsquo;s what happens when you press against the flimsy bubble.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And in that one you see your faith is fully justified. There IS no
justification for faithlessness, but faith is ALWAYS justified.
</div>

Faithlessness is very simply something that has never worked. Everything
associated with it has never come to fruition. By that I mean, not a
single one of you who is dreaming has managed to arrive at a point of
being successfully independent, credible with integrity in your own
right, meaning unjoined with your Source.

So, dare to make the commitment. Dare to push into the unknown, against
whatever resistance is there, by doing something you are quite capable
of doing. You really can sit or stand wherever you are and say,
&ldquo;Father, what is the truth here?&rdquo; And you can do that with
meaning because the words are very simple. And you know you&rsquo;re not
asking your human father. You know you&rsquo;re reaching beyond the
human condition.

&ldquo;Father, what is the truth here &hellip; Father, what is the truth
here? I choose no longer to be insane. I choose no longer to be in a
state of ignorance thinking I&rsquo;m in a state of intelligence.
Father, what is the truth here? Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing
more than my right Mind&mdash;what is the truth here? I will let You in.
I invite You in. I invite You to do anything you can do to break
through, although I know You cannot violate my free-will. I invite You
to do everything You can to reach me in my willfulness and I will do
everything I can to abandon it.&rdquo;

As I said last time, none of this is simplistic, all of it is simple.

I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: T19.1 Healing and the Mind

