---
title: Jun 17, 2012
ref: "Discussion"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well &hellip; In the beginning was the Word and the word was with God
and the Word was God.[^1] And God, the Word, moved and the Movement was
called Creation. The Movement is called Creation.

No matter how you&rsquo;re seeing that Movement, whether clearly or
through a glass darkly,[^2] it is the one and only Movement there is.

Creation, and this may sound a little silly, but Creation was created to
work, not fail. Being created by the only Presence there is, God, there
was no flaw in in it and therefore, again, no matter how you are seeing
it, it is still the one and only Creation unflawed, perfect,
unalterable, always reflecting its Source.

Now, why would I say that Creation was created to work, not fail? I say
it because you look at the world and universe sometimes forgetting that
it&rsquo;s really Creation unflawed. And in your ignorance of what It
is&mdash;in your temporary memory loss&mdash;you determine what It is
and you don&rsquo;t see It as perfect. And you see It as something
flawed, something threatening, something dangerous.

And so you need to be reminded: No, that is not the truth about It. The
truth about the world and the universe you are experiencing every day is
that It is Creation, that It is God Moving. God isn&rsquo;t in It, but
It, in every aspect, reflects its Source, the present living Movement of
God.

Now there was a time when you were experiencing It as exactly what It
divinely is. And as we&rsquo;ve discussed many times, you arrived at a
point with an ally&mdash;a partner, another Son or Daughter of
God&mdash;where the two of you said, &ldquo;We would rather make up the
definitions of what everything is. We would have fun giving an
alternative meaning to everything.&rdquo; And so you decided to get a
divorce from the Father.

As I&rsquo;ve also said before, when this happened, because your Mind
was whole, because your Mind was the Mind of God embodied as You, this
decision you made was made with great confidence. You were full of the
experience of omnipotence as well as omnipresence. And so to engage in
this activity was done without fear. This is important.

Now, the moment the two of you joined in your mutual agreement to make
up the meaning of everything between the two of you, something happened,
as I&rsquo;ve said, that you didn&rsquo;t expect. That was, that
unplugged from your Source&mdash;not relating to your Source
anymore&mdash;you lost the infinite view and you seemed to be identified
with the specific visibility and tangibility of you that you now call
your body, which is part of the infinitude of Creation. And in that
experience of tininess of shape, of form, that is what it is and is not
what everything else is, two things entered into the picture: fear and
guilt and they colored every subsequent thought you had&mdash;every
subsequent thought the two of you had.

And so your whole experience of the Kingdom of Heaven, which was still
the only thing available to you to be experiencing, occurred through the
lens of fear and guilt.

Now here&rsquo;s why I&rsquo;m going over this again because I want to
explain it in a very simple way that it will be difficult for you to
forget. When you abandoned the infinite view, when you said
&ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it my way,&rdquo; you did it with
great confidence&mdash;without fear. And it was easy to do. Now, from
the other side where everything is colored by fear and guilt, any
attempt you make to go back Home will be colored by fear and guilt. You
will not find within you the confidence, the strength, or the
fearlessness to return Home to reunite with your Father with commitment.

Mind you, this is not a punishment, it&rsquo;s just inherent in the
point of view. It&rsquo;s like looking in the wrong end of binoculars.
Everything isn&rsquo;t tiny and far away because you&rsquo;ve done
something wrong, it&rsquo;s just the nature of looking through the
lenses in reverse.

So don&rsquo;t be surprised that it seems to be laborious to go Home, as
you attempt to bring commitment to bear upon your experience.

The practice of the two-step, the practice of the holy instant is a
practice which goes against the fear and guilt that color everything you
see and do. The decision to reach outside your best judgments and to
say, &ldquo;Father, Holy Spirit, what is the truth here, what is the
truth beyond what I&rsquo;m seeing?&rdquo; when you do that, that act is
an objection to the frame of mind in which fear and guilt
govern&mdash;the orphan mindset.

Understand this and you won&rsquo;t mind the effort that it seems to
take. And because you now are clearly aware that it&rsquo;s inherent in,
we&rsquo;ll say, the direction that you&rsquo;re moving
from&mdash;it&rsquo;s inherent in the arena you&rsquo;re moving from and
will be present in the movement in the direction toward which
you&rsquo;re going&mdash;you can invalidate it.  You can say &hellip;
you can realize, &ldquo;this experience of fear and guilt that I&rsquo;m
having which tends to immobilize me is not valid. It&rsquo;s inherent in
the trip back Home because it&rsquo;s part and parcel of my believing
that I&rsquo;m separate and apart from God &hellip; that I&rsquo;m not
holy, that I am a quirk of nature, of the physical universe.&rdquo;

So, let&rsquo;s look at it this way: Why don&rsquo;t you engage in the
holy instant constantly? This past week, even though you may have
engaged in the holy instant many times, why didn&rsquo;t you stick with
it? Why didn&rsquo;t you persist? Why didn&rsquo;t you escalate it to
the point where it was your constant activity? Even though you&rsquo;ve
been told that it&rsquo;s the way back into your right Mind, even though
you&rsquo;ve been told that the result will be the influx of the
Father&rsquo;s Perspective&mdash;the holy Mind of God&mdash;infilling
you as your conscious awareness of everything, even though you&rsquo;ve
been told that that is the result, why haven&rsquo;t you dared to
persevere? Why hasn&rsquo;t that been sufficient justification?

Well, because you need to cover your ass! It&rsquo;s because you need to
protect yourself against real danger, whether mental or physical. And
you cannot comfortably abandon what you have thought provided you with
safety even if it&rsquo;s in order to Awaken and share the
Father&rsquo;s Mind.

Your fear is paramount and it becomes such the closer you get to
abandoning self-control. I mean by that, controlling everything yourself
by the acts and decisions of your mind. When you get close to actually
abandoning that, it causes fear because you&rsquo;re giving up your
armor. You&rsquo;re giving up what has&mdash;you thought&mdash;provided
you with safety.

And so where it should have caused pangs of fear to think about getting
a divorce from the Father and it didn&rsquo;t, likewise, returning Home
should cause joy and commitment and it doesn&rsquo;t. You see? You could
say it&rsquo;s almost a mechanical aspect. But because it is, it
doesn&rsquo;t really have true emotional value. It&rsquo;s just a
knee-jerk reaction. Start for Home? Fear and guilt! &ldquo;Can&rsquo;t
do that! Gotta protect myself! Don&rsquo;t have time for that,
circumstances call for my attention to protect myself! Oh-h…gotta be
sure I don&rsquo;t do anything which makes me look like a fool to all
the other orphans&mdash;to the ones I&rsquo;ve joined in mutual
agreements with to be alone&mdash;to be in this place where fear and
guilt are automatic partners and governors of my experience!&rdquo;

But you see, the perception is untrue and the suggestion that you
can&rsquo;t afford to abandon protecting yourself by engaging in the
holy instant is false. And you&rsquo;ve got to realize this.
You&rsquo;ve got to remember it!

You know, when you rely upon yourself, as we&rsquo;ve said, you are
engaging in faithlessness. When you are abandoning this self that you
think you are and reaching beyond it into what you feel is the unknown,
reaching out and asking of the Source of Being&mdash;your
Father&mdash;&ldquo;What is the truth here?&rdquo; you are practicing
faith, even though faith has an overriding underlying absence of
confidence in it and doesn&rsquo;t feel like anything powerful or
motivating or anything that could cause something else. But that
perception, that conclusion, that line of reasoning is false and you
must go against it.

Now, the Course in Miracles may not in itself be something that you can
practice. A Course in Miracles is an expression of ideas, which move you
in the direction of an action you can take. And that action is the holy
instant&mdash;the practice of the holy instant.

You may have thought, as we&rsquo;ve discussed as well, that the
practice of A Course in Miracles is to express love to your neighbor no
matter how the neighbor is behaving, no matter how the neighbor is
perceiving himself or yourself, truly or untruly, it&rsquo;s learning
how to love him and not be bothered&mdash;not be moved by the behavior
or the concepts being expressed. But if you&rsquo;re not moved by it, no
correction can occur, can it? You become one cooperating with the
ignorance, confirming it by not objecting to it or not contradicting it.

No. The call is for Love. But not for you to be loving. And when I say
loving, I mean not you fulfilling the concepts of what love is. You see?
Not fulfilling your best judgments, your best ideas about what love is.
No.

If you want to express love, you&rsquo;re going to have to engage in the
holy instant. You&rsquo;re going to have to do the two-step, which is
instead of speaking and expressing loving thoughts and loving appraisals
of your Brother without correcting the problem, instead of that, you
shut up! And you go into the silence within you. You stop dealing with
your Brother whose expressed, we&rsquo;ll say, a call for Love and you
say, &ldquo;Father&rdquo; or &ldquo;Holy Spirit, what do I need to know
here? What needs to be said? What is the truth here? I will not rely
upon my best judgments in response to this situation. I want to hear
from You and I will listen until I do.&rdquo;

When you hear &hellip; what you hear will be loving&mdash;will be the
expression of Love that hits the mark and acts like a catalyst
transforming the call for Love into a receipt of Love on the part of
your Brother. You see?

Well, what if the call for Love seemed to be an inconsiderate or
mean-spirited or threatening action directed toward you by that Brother?
You might say, &ldquo;Oh I don&rsquo;t have time for the holy instant
here. I&rsquo;ve got to protect myself.&rdquo; You see?

No you don&rsquo;t. Practicing faithlessness is never under any
circumstance justifiable because the practice of faithlessness effects
nothing! It brings nothing into greater clarity. It causes no movement
into greater harmony and identified fulfillment. You see?

Protecting your ass keeps you in the orphanage. Protecting your ass
keeps you in the arena of faithlessness. Nothing else can it do.
It&rsquo;s that simple. It&rsquo;s that absolute. And as you let that
percolate, as you let that sink in, you will begin to have a capacity
that arise in you to persist in the holy instant. You see?

You&rsquo;ve got to wrestle with the angel that looks like a devil.
You&rsquo;ve got to look squarely at the call for correction.
You&rsquo;ve got to look squarely at the call for Love that seems to be
something other than love. And you have to persist in at looking at it
squarely in the face while you say, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth
here? Father what is the truth, what is the divine fact that is going on
right where a call for Love, which is unpleasant, seems to be going
on?&rdquo;

You see, caring for your Brother means persisting in seeing the
God&rsquo;s honest truth right where an unruly or unpleasant or
threatening Brother seems to be, because mind you, God created Creation
to work. And so It is working. If that is what It was created for, that
is what It is.

And so, the God&rsquo;s honest Son of God that just seemed to express a
call for Love, is the God&rsquo;s honest Son of God in spite of his
insane behavior that seems to claim that he is not the holy Son of God
created to work and therefore, actually working as [chuckle] designed.

Loving your Brother is standing there, not abandoning him and not
abandoning your need to know the truth so that you might be free of the
insinuation that&rsquo;s being presented to you, that this one is not
the Son of God and he&rsquo;s not worth persisting in the holy instant,
he&rsquo;s not worth being the one that causes you to reach for your
Sanity, your perception of Reality unwaveringly until you see it. And
then because you see it, spontaneously share it with your Brother. You
see?

A Course In Miracles is not a lot of soothing thoughts and ideas to make
you comfortable in the human condition. And the words that are in the
book are not there to be memorized, but are there to&mdash;in thousands
of different ways&mdash;move you to a point of realization that you want
to practice the holy instant because it&rsquo;s the way Home.  And you
want to be in your right Mind and you&rsquo;re willing to do whatever it
takes. And now it&rsquo;s clearer than ever that what it will take is an
act which will be accompanied by fear and guilt because there&rsquo;s no
other way to go back Home than to do it through territory governed by
fear and guilt. You see?

However, the fear and guilt are illusions and the penalties and threats
that are thrown at you as potentials cannot be carried out. There is no
lawgiver external from you making assessments and judgments and then
holding you to the penalty. Only you and the partner whom you joined
together with in getting the divorce from the Father have the means of
focusing your attention unintelligently on illusions and believing them.
But you are hearing clearly that the illusions of fear and guilt that
raise their head as you dare to abandon your personal private control,
is an illusion that cannot hold you back and cannot actually penalize
you if you persist in the practice of the holy instant.

It&rsquo;s that simple. Do you need to be afraid of all of this? No! But
you do need to bring your curiosity out into the open. You do need to
dare to take a chance at having some fun. You need to dare to experiment
at Waking up. You need to not be afraid of It. And when fear and guilt
pops its head up, tell it to, &ldquo;go fly a kite,&rdquo; or use any
kind of words that you might want to use that disrespect the fear and
guilt, that dishonor it, that treat it as though it is silly,
meaningless and unworthy of your attention. And then give your attention
back to the holy instant. Give your attention back to, what? The desire
to know what is the truth here? What is God being right here? . . right
where a sniffling child or an angry adult is making a call for Love,
which doesn&rsquo;t sound like a call for Love at all, it sounds like
the start of a fight or an argument or a strong long drawn out
disagreement.

No matter how pleasant a life situation you may have worked out for
yourself or you seemed to have just fallen into, if you&rsquo;re not
Awake, then you don&rsquo;t know the real meaning yet of harmony and
peace and fulfillment. It isn&rsquo;t just the absence of threat. It
isn&rsquo;t just the presence of comfort. My goodness, Creation is
illuminated with the energy of Spirit, which is Love. It glows, it
effervesces with the aliveness of Life and Truth and Love.

I have to be very frank &hellip; some of you might say I have to be very
Raj: There is no justification for you to be complacently happy at any
moment, no matter how pleasant everything is. If you are being
complacently happy, you are indulging in stupid rest &hellip; which
needs to be interrupted. It needs to be interrupted because the stupid
rest doesn&rsquo;t prime you for change. It doesn&rsquo;t prime you for
healing. It doesn&rsquo;t prime you for Revelation. It&rsquo;s rather
like a tranquilizer. And you think you&rsquo;re so well off. And
although you&rsquo;re not overjoyed, you are in peace and you&rsquo;re
not in fear, but you&rsquo;re also not conscious. You are not
experiencing that Mind in you which was also in me&mdash;which is also
in me.

You&rsquo;re not experiencing your Birthright as the Son or Daughter of
God. And nothing should keep you from reaching for your Birthright.
That&rsquo;s what the Course is all about. It says: Establish a holy
relationship with a Brother or a Sister and then, as the act which
characterizes every part of that relationship, engage in the holy
instant so that what you bring to that partner is what the Father is
revealing to you is the truth about your partner as well as yourself, so
that you are being together in an entirely new way, I&rsquo;m going to
say, at an entirely new level, not the level of ignorance anymore but
the level of understanding, the level of Knowing, not thinking the
truth, but Knowing the truth, that which is embedded in you forever as
part of your comprehension of All.

Now, let&rsquo;s understand something else: The movement back Home is
one which will have fear and guilt dogging you at your heels. I
encourage you to arrive at a point where you laugh at it because
it&rsquo;s only an insinuation that you&rsquo;re guilty and that there
is something to be afraid of. It&rsquo;s only an insinuation that you
need to pay more attention to the fear and the guilt than you do your
goal of desiring to Know the truth about what&rsquo;s going on, right
where the human condition seems to be going on. You see?

Persistence &hellip; persistence with curiosity, persistence with
frivolous laughter where you make guilt and fear a frivolous thing, not
worth paying attention to or governing yourself by.

Now, because the practice of the two-step and the willingness to abandon
self-protection&mdash;protection by means of your own hand&mdash;because
fear and guilt accompany you as you get close to abandoning
self-protection, one might have moments of fear that seem to persist if
you&rsquo;re not making fun of the overtures of the fear and the guilt.
And if one is determined through self-will to not abandon all acts of
self-protection as a maintenance of one&rsquo;s integrity, this fear and
guilt can seem to stretch out in time where fear and guilt are on the
scene for more than a few minutes&mdash;could be for a few days or a few
weeks or a few months.

Why? Why would this happen? It happens because you feel you need to
cover your ass, and covering your ass is more important than anything
else. Acting on the basis of your best judgments and your securing your
independent integrity is more important than Waking up.

And so your insistence upon your will causes the holy instant to seem to
be drawn out in time and for fear and guilt to seem to have hold of you.
You see? When it&rsquo;s really you insisting upon fighting for the
right to defend yourself because you have more faith in what you can
control than what the Father can do, which you don&rsquo;t comprehend at
the moment because you&rsquo;re coming from the orphanage, the place of
fear and guilt and weakness and so on.

This has often been called &ldquo;a dark night of the Soul.&rdquo; And
I&rsquo;m bringing this up on purpose because it indicates how one can
take a simple experience of self-will carried out to an extreme, which
can be easily corrected by abandoning the self-will and giving your
attention to something else, like the two-step, the holy instant. It
takes that simple act of self-will and turns it into a drama, I&rsquo;m
going to say, that seems somehow to be something you can go through.

You can go through &ldquo;the dark night of the Soul.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s
like you&rsquo;re on your way south from Los Angeles and if you take a
left turn you can go through the death valley, as though it&rsquo;s a
place that really has those meanings.

So a persistent act of willfulness has been turned into a general
concept embraced practically world-wide that there is a dark night of
the Soul which you can go through and actually probably will go through.
And who knows how long it will last. You see? Because who has anything
to do with it? Not you of course. It couldn&rsquo;t possibly be a simple
act of persistent self-will, refusing to engage in the holy instant and
practice faith and be the presence of faith which creates miracles. It
couldn&rsquo;t be something that simple, right?

So be careful. Don&rsquo;t purpose the idea of a dark night of the Soul.
Don&rsquo;t suggest it. Don&rsquo;t repeat it. Because it misses the
point entirely and makes it seem as though it is a complicated thing
that you&rsquo;re not responsible for, that you must just put up with
until somehow it matures you or spits you out on the &ldquo;other
side,&rdquo; transformed. When at the best it&rsquo;s just caused you to
take a little bit more self responsibility than you were taking when you
initiated the ongoing act of willfulness to protect yourself so that you
could take credit for the victory and add that to your list of things
which document your credibility. You see?

Things are simpler.

We&rsquo;re not going to go into the book tonight, although I&rsquo;m
going to suggest that during the coming week you do read to the end of
this section.

But more than anything, I am inviting everyone to practice the holy
instant as consistently as possible throughout the week, without
determining that there are times in which you have the right to not have
to work so hard, which really means you have the right to not engage in
the effort it takes to really be conscious. You see?

Remember that, because you&rsquo;ll realize that the desire not to be so
conscious is a desire to be lazy, doped, drugged and therefore, unable
to comprehend the miracle of Creation that is the only thing
you&rsquo;re confronted with at any moment. And so you miss the presence
of God and the only justification you will ever need for practicing the
holy instant permanently.

I love you. I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next
time.

[^1]: John 1:1
[^2]: 1 Corinthians 13:12

