---
title: Jul 29, 2012
ref: "T19.1 Healing and the Mind"
alink: "/acim/text/19/chap1901/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

We&rsquo;ve been talking quite extensively about faith and
faithlessness. And the meaning of those words is taking on much deeper
significance.

In the past, it was easy to think of someone as being a faithless person
or a person with a great deal of faith. It was like the difference
between faith and faithlessness were the presence or absence of faith.
If you had faith, you were faithful &hellip; you had faith, you were
positively oriented in the world. And if you were faithless, you lacked
faith. You didn&rsquo;t have a whole lot of faith and therefore
didn&rsquo;t seem to experience much of a positive attitude toward life.

But as we&rsquo;ve been discussing it, and as A Course In Miracles has
given greater definition to those words, these words have become
transformationally significant.

Faithlessness isn&rsquo;t just a matter of lacking faith&mdash;lacking a
positive orientation. Faithlessness, as we&rsquo;ve been discussing, is
constituted of you approaching life, gathering the meanings of life,
coming to conclusions about life entirely on your own, entirely through
the use of what you would call your mind coupled with your imagination,
coupled with your use of logic and so on. Meaning, that your practice of
faith has not involved being joined with the Father or being joined with
That which formed all of Creation. And as a result, your conclusions
cannot be true because you have blinded yourself to the truth through
your self-dependence.

Thus, what has been called faith is actually faithlessness. You have not
brought the faith that dawns upon you, that infills you when you abandon
your best judgment and your best reasoning&rsquo;s and you say,
&ldquo;Father, what is the truth here?&rdquo; That&rsquo;s when you
practice the holy instant. You could say that that opening to the Father
and the request of the Father constitutes faith on your part. But the
real faith is what is revealed to you in your state of innocent
inquisitiveness in your reaching out to the Father because the Father
infills you with faith. The Father infills you with faith by revealing
to you the truth about your situation. You see? And as a result of that
inspiration, you understand what you didn&rsquo;t understand before.

Now, faith is you not relying upon yourself but leaning into the Father.

Faithlessness is you relying upon yourself, excluding the Father and
causing yourself to misunderstand and misinterpret everything
you&rsquo;re experiencing.

We&rsquo;ve called this state, the state of orphanhood because
you&rsquo;ve disassociated yourself from the Father. Faith, on the other
hand, is when you reestablish your association with the Father and
receive His inspiration.

Do you see that the practice of faithlessness&mdash;the practice of
self-reliance as an independent agent&mdash;puts you in a position where
the Kingdom of Heaven appears to you to be a material universe? On the
other hand, the practice of faith, placing you in firm relationship with
your Father, causes you&mdash;by virtue of the influx of realization
that the Father gives you&mdash;to see the Kingdom of Heaven as the
Kingdom of Heaven.

Now what does this mean?

Faithlessness isn&rsquo;t just a lack of positive orientation.
Faithlessness is an act of independence that causes you to seem to be in
a material world and universe where what? God&rsquo;s laws do NOT
prevail.

The practice of faith, on the other hand, puts you in communion with the
Father in the holy instant where God&rsquo;s laws prevail. It is as
though the difference between faithlessness and faith are dimensional.
The practice of faith moves you into a dimension other than what you
would call the three-dimensional universe where there is a material
world, material events, life and death, etc.

Faith and faithlessness make all the difference in the world&mdash;make
all the difference in Creation&mdash;as far as your experience of it is
concerned.

&ldquo;Be ye transformed by the renewing of your minds.&rdquo;[^1] And
renew your minds by enquiring of the Father.

Do you want to be free of sin, disease and death, suffering, hatred,
jealousy&mdash;the endless list of suffering? Then stop practicing
faithlessness. Stop relying upon yourself because that will keep you in
a material world where all things are material and all things will die.

Or practice faith: Practice faith by putting yourself in communion with
Something other than yourself which you give deference to because you
know it is your Father, because you know it is God, because you know it
is the infinite Intelligence. And join with commitment because you do
want to have an experience of what can only be described as another
dimension.

Here&rsquo;s another way of putting it: The practice of
faithlessness&mdash;self-reliance&mdash;is insanity. And the experience
one has is insane because everything is misperceived. The way everything
is experienced is skewed so that you are out of balance, not clear,
always in a state of some degree of confusion where there is never
really peace, where there is never really harmony, where there is never
really wholeness. And yet those things are your Birthright.

Now what is the purpose of practicing the holy instant? What is the
purpose of practicing faith&mdash;engaging in faith&mdash;engaging in
that which will allow the Father&rsquo;s Gift of faith to register with
you? What is the purpose so that you might join with the Father,
reinstate your relationship with Him from whom all of the Meaning of You
is derived?

Why? So that you&mdash;in that joined attitude, in that joined
actuality&mdash;might relate to your Brother or Sister with the
Father&rsquo;s Perspective that is provided to you as the Revelation of
faith that you glean new understanding about yourself from, as well as
your Brother. And you do this because to join with the Father is not to
join just with the Father, but to join with Father is to join with your
Family&mdash;your relationship with every other holy Son and Daughter of
God&mdash;so that unity of Family is restored. Harmony of Family is
restored. Uninterrupted love of Family is restored. So that wholeness,
harmony, peace, perfection can be experienced by every single Son and
Daughter of God.

You practice the holy instant so that you might be able to spontaneously
engage in holy relationships with your Brother, with your Sister and
with your world and everything in it&mdash;in which your Brother, your
Sister, the world and everything in it are restored to perfect
perfection. The uninhibited sharing and expression of Love and the
embrace of Love that wouldn&rsquo;t for a minute think to leave any part
of the Brotherhood out of or outside of the clear perception of your
Brothers and Sisters that the Father has shared with you&mdash;His
Perspective&mdash;which it&rsquo;s your Birthright to be experiencing.

So here we are. We&rsquo;re faced with very simple but very clear
opposites that it&rsquo;s necessary to make a choice between. One is
faithlessness&mdash;arrogant self-trust, arrogant self-expression,
arrogant domination by this great self that one is who needs no Source,
never had a Source, to whom God is a figment of the imagination. You
see? That&rsquo;s one choice.

The other choice is, to come back into your right Mind through a simple
process: The practice of the two-step where you shut yourself up except
for asking, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here?&rdquo; letting there
just be the desire to Know what the truth is, (not where do you fit in,
not how can you be made great, it&rsquo;s not about you at all) what is
the truth here? Even when you ask &ldquo;What is the truth about me,
Father?&rdquo; you&rsquo;re asking for the truth about you from the
Father&rsquo;s Perspective, not yours, because the truth about you is
far different than anything you can imagine, you holy Son or Daughter of
God.

Now, going into the book:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your holy relationship, with its new purpose&hellip;[^2]
</div>

&hellip; what new purpose? The purpose of not doing anything in the
relationship until what is appropriate is revealed to you, until the
perspective of what is true is revealed to you because you refrain from
relating until first you&rsquo;ve said &ldquo;Father, what is the truth
here? I want to know Your Perspective. I want to be filled with Your
Perspective so that that Perspective, we&rsquo;ll say, colors everything
I see about my Brother or my Sister, about the one I want to be in a
holy relationship with.&rdquo; You see? You want your perception of the
one you&rsquo;re in a holy relationship with to be derived from the
Father&rsquo;s Perspective that has been gifted to you because you asked
the Father first, &ldquo;What is the truth about my partner? What is the
truth about this one I want to be in a holy relationship with?&rdquo;
You see?

The new purpose of the holy relationship is to engage in it through the
Father&rsquo;s Perspective that is gifted to you. Because in the receipt
of that Perspective, you become an agent for change in the sense of one
who is healed, that is capable of extending the Gift of healing &hellip;
to whom? We&rsquo;ll say in this case, the one you&rsquo;ve chosen to be
in a holy relationship with. You see the difference? It&rsquo;s not
about you learning something new that you can do that is a far better
thing to do for your Brother or partner than you&rsquo;ve ever done
before, all by yourself, without ever having enquired into a larger
picture&mdash;a different dimension of experience. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
So, your holy relationship, with its new purpose, offers you faith &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that&rsquo;s given to you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to give unto each other.
</div>

Which as I shared last time, happens spontaneously. Your perspective is
imbued with clarity which just naturally, spontaneously, is extended to
your Brother or your Sister or your world&mdash;that which you choose to
be in a holy relationship with.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your faithlessness had driven you apart&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and this is a statement that is true of all mankind, of all who
are relating to each other independently as independent agents, not holy
Sons or Daughters of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your faithlessness had driven you apart, and so you did not recognize
salvation in each other.
</div>

Now what that really means is, you did not recognize that the two of you
could serve as the reason for reaching out to the Father to know the
truth so that you could be infilled with the clarity that would then
bless both of you in the relationship. You see? It isn&rsquo;t that your
salvation was in that body over there of your Brother or Sister, or his
or her salvation was in yourself, this &ldquo;body&rdquo; sitting here.
No. Salvation lies in the fact that your Brother can serve as the reason
for reaching to the Father. That&rsquo;s quite incredible. And
it&rsquo;s in that, that your salvation lies and it&rsquo;s in that,
that your Brother&rsquo;s or your partner&rsquo;s salvation lies
relative to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your faithlessness had driven you apart, and so you did not recognize
salvation in each other. Yet faith &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Gift of the Father &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
UNITES you in the holiness you see &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as a result of the Perspective that the Father has given
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; not through the body's eyes, but in the sight of Him Who joined
you, and in Whom YOU are united.
</div>

Who joined you? The Father or the Holy Spirit, that Perspective joined
you with your partner spontaneously. You, illumined by truth and love
became a new kind of partner in the holy relationship. You see? A new
kind of partner, which is the result of the gift of clarity that the
Father gives you and that the Father has always been intent on giving
you even while you were choosing to ignore Him and believe and act as
though you are an independent agent.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Grace &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and what else could you call this gift and the result of it but
Grace.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Grace is not given to a body&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; me, this body here giving something to you, that body over
there. No.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Grace is not given to a body, but to a MIND. And the mind that receives
it looks instantly beyond the body&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; because that&rsquo;s what happens in the insight that is
received. One realizes that all of the perceptions about the body were
not accurate. There are entirely different perceptions about it and its
innocence and its holiness. You see? And you look beyond the meanings
that you had looked at before and determined things by. And you look to
see the one that&rsquo;s revealed to you by virtue of the Father&rsquo;s
Gift of insight and illumination.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; faith UNITES you in the holiness you see, not through the
body's eyes, but in the sight of Him Who joined you, and in Whom YOU are
united. Grace is not given to a body, but to a MIND. And the mind that
receives it looks instantly beyond the body, and sees the holy place
where it was healed.
</div>

The understanding, the presence of Mind that the Father imbued you
with&mdash;which you were imbued with at the moment of Creation, if I
can put it that way&mdash;but now that you&rsquo;ve decided to rejoin
the Father, it seems as though you&rsquo;ve become imbued with it for
the first time, even though you&rsquo;re being imbued with it again. You
see?

The Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; looks instantly beyond the body, and sees the holy place where
it was healed. THERE is the altar where the grace was given, in which it
stands.
</div>

In which the grace stands. The altar is the Mind that has been imbued
with the clarity of the Father&rsquo;s Perception, the Father&rsquo;s
Perspective, which brings Creation into being, forever.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do you, then, offer grace and blessing to each other, for you stand at
the same altar&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; both of you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; where grace was laid for BOTH of you.
</div>

The altar is the Mind that was imbued by the love and divine perspective
of the Father in you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And be you healed by grace together, that YOU may heal through faith.
</div>

When you have abandoned your independence, when you&rsquo;ve abandoned
your divorce from the Father, unity returns, as I said, between you and
the Father and you and your Family&mdash;you and everything.

When you let this union that has stood forever, even when it was being
ignored, when you let that union be the truth, the whole truth and
nothing but the truth because you have made unyielding commitment to it,
then you are healed and you are in a position to heal your Brothers and
Sisters. The blessing given you, you are in a position to extend to
those Brothers or Sisters who still don&rsquo;t recognize the truth and
are still bound by their insistence upon independence and the bondage
and the terror that governs them in that false position. You&rsquo;re in
a position to be able to heal because you&rsquo;re not fooled into
believing what they&rsquo;re still believing. And you can help them set
down their beliefs.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the holy instant, you stand before the altar God has raised unto
Himself and BOTH of you. Lay faithlessness aside&hellip;
</div>

When the gift of faith is presented to you, you have to be willing to
lay faithlessness aside. You have to be willing to abandon your
addiction to your own self-assertion and your own best attempts to make
something out of yourself, on your own, by yourself. You have to be
willing to lay that faithlessness aside with commitment to what will be
received as a result, before you have received it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Lay faithlessness aside, and come to it together.
</div>

The altar.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There will you see the miracle of your relationship as it was made again
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or anew &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; through faith.
</div>

What faith? The faith gifted to you when you reached out to the Father.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And there it is that you will realize that there is nothing faith cannot
forgive.
</div>

Why? If faith is the Father&rsquo;s Perspective replacing your
misunderstandings and the true understanding uncovers perfection,
harmony, love, then anything that had been a cause for withholding
forgiveness will no longer stand in the way of your letting go of your
lack of forgiveness and extending the clarity that either joins
another&rsquo;s new found clarity or serves to help lift that other one
out of ignorance that he&rsquo;s still holding onto. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No error interferes with its calm sight&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; when you look through the eyes of faith that have been given to
you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No error interferes with its calm sight, which brings the miracle of
healing with equal ease to ALL of them. For what the messengers of love
are sent to do THEY DO, returning the glad tidings that it was done to
you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the gift of faith was, the gift of grace was done to you
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; who stand together before the altar from which they were sent
forth.
</div>

&ldquo;Ye shall know the truth,&rdquo;[^3] the truth shall be revealed. And
the revealed truth shall make you free because you will not
misunderstand the Kingdom of Heaven&mdash;that is the only thing
confronting you&mdash;like you did before truth was revealed.

You know:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As faithlessness will keep your little kingdoms barren and
separate&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as your staunch acts of independence and of being a free agent
to do whatever you damn well please, as that is abandoned&mdash;that
being faithlessness&mdash;that which has kept your little kingdoms
barren and separate will be released, that which holds them together,
that which seems to make them real will be gone and they will crumble.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As faithlessness will keep your little kingdoms barren and separate, so
will faith help the Holy Spirit prepare the ground for the most holy
garden which He would make of it.
</div>

The Holy Spirit&mdash;which is nothing more than your right
Mind&mdash;when it is returned to you because you&rsquo;re not holding
it apart from yourself any longer, It&rsquo;s function is to reveal the
God&rsquo;s honest truth to you so that you&rsquo;re seeing Reality
rather than this kingdom of mortality and materiality that your
independent stance has created for you.

The Holy Spirit&rsquo;s function and purpose is to reveal the Kingdom of
Heaven to you right where you&rsquo;ve been seeing the material
universe. That&rsquo;s the Garden, the Kingdom of Heaven.

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As faithlessness will keep your little kingdoms barren and separate, so
will faith help the Holy Spirit prepare the ground for the most holy
garden which He would make of it. For faith brings peace, and so it
calls on truth to enter and make lovely what has already been prepared
for loveliness.
</div>

You see, there&rsquo;s a natural order of things. When you&rsquo;re
willing to abandon your orphanhood, when you&rsquo;re willing to reach
out to the Father once again and say, &ldquo;What is the truth
here?&rdquo; and you do it with commitment and you don&rsquo;t abandon
the intent until the Father has responded &hellip; in other words, until
you have been willing not to defend yourself against it any longer, then
faith is gifted to you. And with faith comes something else, peace.
Peace that isn&rsquo;t governed by circumstances. Peace that is firmly
in place, even if something disturbing is going on. That&rsquo;s the
second thing that comes after faith. And then the third thing that comes
is truth&mdash;the revelation of what Reality is. You see?

Faith, peace, truth. Sort of like the three wise men. They come together
but they come in that order. So faith and peace have already been part
of the preparation of loveliness, which the coming of truth manifests
before your eyes&mdash;opens you eyes to the dawning of truth&mdash;is
the uncovering of loveliness, the loveliness of the Garden, the
loveliness of the Kingdom of Heaven which you have been misinterpreting
for so long.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Truth follows faith and peace, completing the process of making lovely
which they begin. For faith is still a learning goal, no longer needed
when the lesson has been learned. Yet truth will stay forever.
</div>

The dawning of truth, the uncovering of truth that is the result of your
practicing the holy instant, that will remain forever because your
Sanity has returned and you are experiencing yourself as whole again.

So last week, I spoke about dedication and commitment where you ask the
Father &ldquo;What is the truth?&rdquo; or you pray, and it&rsquo;s
revealed because you persisted in listening. And then you set the seal
upon it by saying, &ldquo;yes&rdquo; to it. You see? This is a
commitment with follow through, a commitment with depth that is anchored
solidly in Reality, anchored solidly in the Father&rsquo;s Presence of
Mind that is His gift to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let, then, your dedication &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your commitment, your resolve.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let, then, your dedication be to the eternal&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, the other dimension, the Reality which is
totally obscured to you as what it truly is when you&rsquo;re practicing
faithlessness&mdash;in other words, self-centered independence. You see?

What are you going to give your faith to? What are you going to honor
and backup with your honest resolve? It&rsquo;s one or the other:
It&rsquo;s a material world and universe where sin, disease and death
are the rule, or it is the Kingdom of Heaven where life, truth and love
are Real and eternal and unassailable.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let, then, your dedication be to the eternal, and learn how NOT to
interfere with it and make it slave to time.
</div>

Yes, how do you interfere with it? You interfere with it by thinking on
your own. You interfere with it by attempting to engage in independent
acts of control. You see?

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
learn how NOT to interfere with it and make it
slave to time.
</div>

In other words, a material world and universe in which time passes and
things deteriorate and you wither and die.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For what you think you do to the eternal you do to YOU. Whom God created
as His Son &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning every single one of you, all of us.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whom God created as His Son is slave to nothing, being lord of all
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? On his own? In his own right? No&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; being lord of all along with his Creator.
</div>

Joined, no sense of separate selfhood, no sense of separate integrity to
be achieved and recognized. No&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; being lord of all along with his Creator. You can enslave a
body, but an IDEA is free&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; all of Creation is Ideas. You are an Idea in the Mind of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can enslave a body, but an IDEA is free, incapable of being kept in
prison, or limited in any way except by the mind that thought it.
</div>

Now the Mind that thought Creation, the Mind that Moved, which caused
Creation, is because of Its perfection, harmony, and the fact that love
is the substance of It, means that every Idea is free and continues to
be free, that is It&rsquo;s Birthright and It&rsquo;s destiny and that
cannot actually be changed.

So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can enslave a body, but an IDEA is free, incapable of being kept in
prison, or limited in any way except by the mind that thought it.
</div>

So we&rsquo;ve already gotten it clear that the nature of God&rsquo;s
Mind is such that it would use It&rsquo;s Ideas only to express the
infinite freedom of God&mdash;the Mind of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For it remains &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; every Idea &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; remains joined to its source&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; obviously &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; which is its jailor or its liberator, according to which it
chooses as its purpose for itself.
</div>

What purpose do you think the Mind of God chooses for Itself? What
purpose do you think the Holy Spirit&mdash;which is nothing more than
your right Mind&mdash;chooses for Itself?

When you are in harmony with the Father, when you are in harmony with
the Holy Spirit&mdash;your right Mind&mdash;you choose as the purpose
for yourself holiness, immaculate perception. You choose for yourself
Sanity. But if you decide to think a little bit, and imagine definitions
of yourself and things for you as this definition to do, to create, to
make, to control, then you will not have Reality. You will have a
distorted experience of the Kingdom of Heaven, called a material world
and universe, lived in by a mortal, called you. Those are the two
drastically different scenarios. One is Real, one is not, but they both
feel real.

So: 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let then your dedication be to the eternal&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and begin today to be dedicated to it with commitment. And
understand that no matter what you&rsquo;re engaged in during your day,
your commitment to see what everything truly is does not constitute a
distraction from anything essential that you need to do to survive. In
fact, your dedication, even if you would rather be thinking about
something else, is what is called for and is what is bound to work
because it&rsquo;s the way Awakening has been set up&mdash;because
it&rsquo;s the only way to come back into your right Mind.

Be willing to put forth the&mdash;and I know you don&rsquo;t like the
word &ldquo;effort&rdquo;&mdash;be willing to put forth the commitment,
be willing to enact the commitment. That&rsquo;s the point.

Okay, I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: Romans 12:2
[^2]: T19.1 Healing and the Mind
[^3]: John 8:32

