---
title: Aug 4, 2012
ref: "T19.2 Sin vs Error"
alink: "/acim/text/19/chap1902/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

A new section:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Sin versus Error*[^1]
</div>

Now, where in the world did this come from?

We ended up with a significant clarifying thought last week which said:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let then, your dedication be to the eternal, and learn how NOT to
interfere with it and make it slave to time. For what you think you do
to the eternal you do to YOU. Whom God created as His Son is slave to
nothing, being lord of all along with his Creator. You can enslave a
body, but an IDEA is free, incapable of being kept in prison, or limited
in any way except by the mind that thought it. For it remains joined to
its source, which is its jailor or its liberator, according to which it
chooses as its purpose for itself.
</div>

Now earlier on, the Course said, to have faith is to heal. And then we
proceeded to find beautiful expressions about how through the practice
of faith, healing can occur because it&rsquo;s inseparable from the
practice of faith. And then we ended up:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let then, your dedication be to the eternal&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; right?

Now &hellip; it&rsquo;s like, out of the blue: *Sin versus Error*

But we have had an interesting time, have we not, with words and new
meanings? We&rsquo;ve talked about thinking and listening and the fact
that the two, you could say, stand on either side of a chasm. They
really are not linked in any way.

Then, we talked about faith and faithlessness. And again, the two stand
on either side of a chasm. They do not relate to each other. And we
found that faith is not something you express, but rather faith is
something you give. You give your attention to the Father, enquiring to
know what the truth is&ndash;or to the Holy Spirit, desiring to know
what the truth is.

And then you shut up and you listen. You see? Thinking and listening.
You listen and you let yourself be infilled and you determine, we will
say, to listen without interference until you hear, because the point is
to hear. And when you hear, you find yourself filled with understanding
and with faith that is a Gift from God.

Faith is not something you practice, it&rsquo;s something you stand in
receipt of. You see?

Faithlessness, on the other hand&ndash;and I am repeating myself because
it&rsquo;s important for these things to be very
clear&ndash;faithlessness doesn&rsquo;t make sense to the ego, to what
you would call the rational mind, because faithlessness is when
you&rsquo;re relying on yourself alone as an independent agent for
change.

It seems like it&rsquo;s an action of faith because you are bringing
your faith to bear upon the situation. But because you are behaving
unequivocally as an orphan when you&rsquo;re not, because you are
relying entirely upon yourself without desiring to know of your
Source&ndash;of the Father, of God&ndash;what the truth is, you, as we
said, put yourself in the position of misunderstanding everything. You
put yourself in a state of active ignorance that causes you to be unable
to see the Kingdom of Heaven as the Kingdom of Heaven. And instead, you
see and experience it as a material universe.

In other words, faith and faithlessness are not equal. They do stand on
either side of a chasm of an actual unchangeable separation and they
determine how you are going to experiencing Reality: truly or falsely.
Makes all the difference in the world because the Kingdom of
Heaven&ndash;harmony&ndash;embodies and expresses life alone. And the
other expresses sin, sickness, death and all of the other negatives of
the human condition.

Now after listening to what we discussed last week, one might think that
all one has to do is engage in the holy instant, turn your attention to
the Father, be determined to be attentive until you are able to let the
Father&rsquo;s Response register with you and then, in the presence of
that influx of inspiration and faith, see your Brother or Sister in the
light of the truth of them because that is revealed in the process of
faith being gifted to you. And then, shall I say, magically observing
healing occurring spontaneously with your Brother or Sister because of
the innocence of your vision.

Now, that isn&rsquo;t always the case and that is exactly why we now are
entering into an exposition of the difference between sin and error

Now it&rsquo;s interesting, you may be infused with faith, understanding
and spiritual clarity that you&rsquo;ve never experienced before that
reveals your Brother to you in a light you hadn&rsquo;t seen him or her
before&ndash;an amazing and healing perspective. When that happens, as
I&rsquo;ve said, your behavior immediately changes because you
can&rsquo;t help but relate to your Brother in the context of this new
clarity which you are experiencing.

Now, if there is a call for correction and you have seen it and you have
let yourself be filled with faith and understanding, two things will
happen: Either there will be spontaneous healing, or there will not.
Either healing will be received&ndash;will be allowed, your Brother will
let it in and will let go of whatever the details of the bondage were.
But sometimes what calls for correction is something that your Brother
doesn&rsquo;t want corrected.

And it&rsquo;s important for you to understand this so you don&rsquo;t
feel as though what I&rsquo;m sharing is baseless and false or that you
have somehow not practiced the holy instant well &hellip; that it must
be your fault. In fact, if you are dealing with someone who is also a
student of the Course, and understands about the holy instant and
understands, we&rsquo;ll say, from their perspective what we read last
week, they might be inclined to say, &ldquo;There is nothing going on
with me that needs correcting. It is your perspective that is false and
you are projecting it on me.&rdquo;

And the reason for making that statement is to delay engaging in the
correction that does indeed need to be made. It is very easy to avoid
correction that isn&rsquo;t wanted by blaming the other person&rsquo;s
perspective and laying a guilt trip on him or her for having such a
misunderstanding. And yet at the bottom line, this whole exchange of
ideas placing the guilt where it doesn&rsquo;t belong is just a means of
delaying being involved in the correction.

Now: *Sin versus Error* pretty much equate to thinking, and I&rsquo;m
going to say, listening. It pretty much equates to faith and
faithlessness.

I&rsquo;m going to read:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is essential that error be not confused with
&ldquo;sin,&rsquo;&rsquo; and it is this distinction which makes
salvation possible.
</div>

What&rsquo;s the difference between sin and error? Well the difference
is that error you don&rsquo;t want to hold on to. Error hurts and you
don&rsquo;t want to hurt. You&rsquo;re willing to give up error. But
sin, we&rsquo;ll say, is error you want to keep. Sin is something you
don&rsquo;t want to release.

It&rsquo;s very simple. You&rsquo;re running a fever. You&rsquo;re
uncomfortable or you have a stomachache or you bumped your finger in the
door. There&rsquo;s no way you want to hold on to these things. When you
say, &ldquo;Help&rdquo; you really want help and you&rsquo;re really
willing to let go of the pain&ndash;the distress. You see? Because
having it is a result of an error, an error, indeed in your mind&ndash;a
misunderstanding of what you divinely Are.

As God created you, it&rsquo;s not your Birthright to be experiencing
any of those things I just described. And you deserve to be free of
them. It is your Birthright not only to not have had them enter your
experience, but also to have them leave your experience [snaps fingers]
instantaneously because God did not ordain them and therefore, they have
no justification for remaining.

It&rsquo;s simple. Healing, you desire because it&rsquo;s the release
from that which is unpleasant.

And so, when you stop thinking, which is what results in sin, sickness
and death&ndash;pain of any sort&ndash;when you abandon thinking and you
choose to listen for the answer, you&rsquo;re willing to hear it. And if
you are joined with a Brother who is willing to listen, on your behalf,
to hear the truth about you so that you might become free of the pain,
you are willing to hear the answer that will relieve you. You see?

So, what is it about sin? Well, sin is like thinking. Let&rsquo;s be
really clear: Thinking is sin. Thinking is you, the holy Son or Daughter
of God insisting on behaving as though you&rsquo;re not, and that you
are an independent entity formed out of the ethers, physically as a
fluke of evolution. You see? That thinking creates a misinterpretation
and a distorted experience of the Kingdom of Heaven.

Now, how did sin come about? Because it&rsquo;s really simply one thing.
It isn&rsquo;t all the complexities of sinfulness that you can talk
about. Sin describes you and another Son or Daughter of God saying to
God, &ldquo;Father, I want a divorce from You. Father, I want to stand
on my own. Father, I want to determine the meaning of everything. You
see? I want to magnify &ldquo;I.&rdquo; I want to engage in
activities that make me God. You see?

Now what is that? It can be called an attack on God because you are
trying to separate yourself from your Source&ndash;your Father, your
Mother. It&rsquo;s you trying to create a new origin of yourself. Get
it? And it&rsquo;s called the origin-al sin&ndash;the original sin, the
mistake, the false belief about your origin. And the attempt then to
become actualized, as I&rsquo;ve said many times, as an independent
agent, it is the attempt to be successfully independent when it&rsquo;s
impossible for you to exist that way. And the only way you could seem
to have the possibility of doing it is because you&rsquo;ve already been
created, not at your own hand.

So when you said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it myself. Father,
I&rsquo;d rather determine what things are myself.&rdquo; And you
attempted to do what couldn&rsquo;t be done, you engaged in sin. But
it&rsquo;s more than that. Because it&rsquo;s one thing to, you might
say, doodle with Creation and alter it here and there and play with it,
it&rsquo;s another thing to do it with gusto! To do it with commitment!
And at the bottom line, once the decision was made to attempt to
function independently, what you would call the power of your being,
which is really emotion, rose up with a commitment to succeed at doing
the impossible.

That commitment to succeed at doing the impossible is the original and
real meaning of addiction.

You can be addicted to a lot of little things. You can be addicted to
heroin, you can be addicted to pot, you can be addicted to jujubes
&hellip; it doesn&rsquo;t have to be something horrible. You could be
addicted to collecting butterflies. But the point is, that you do it
with an obsession and all of these lessor forms of addiction really
reflect the only addiction there is, which is, at the bottom line, to
not Wake up&ndash;to not be the Son or Daughter of God that you Are. You
see?

You say &ldquo;I want to Wake up,&rdquo; you say &ldquo;I love A Course
in Miracles,&rdquo; you say &ldquo;I love what Raj has to say and I
study it and I try to practice it.&rdquo; But as you all know, you lapse
in the practice of it. Why? Well you say, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s because
it&rsquo;s a habit. I&rsquo;m used to thinking. I&rsquo;m used to
figuring things out.&rdquo; You see?

But it&rsquo;s more than that. It&rsquo;s that you do not want to
abandon the attempt to succeed at being Fatherless, Motherless,
independent, autonomous. You&rsquo;re addicted to it. That&rsquo;s why
you lapse. You really value it more.

And so, although you&rsquo;re familiar with looking at your Brother or
Sister or a family member or a neighbor and watch them disallow
correction, disallow healing, and you can see what they&rsquo;re doing,
each one of you who is not Awake at this moment is doing the same thing.

It&rsquo;s interesting that that&rsquo;s all the meaning there is to the
word, &ldquo;sin&rdquo;&ndash;the attempt to accomplish something that
is impossible, obsessively. And we&rsquo;re talking about obsessively
attempting to change the constitution of your mind so completely that it
is incomprehensible to perceive yourself to be the holy Son or Daughter
of God.

So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is essential that error be not confused with "sin," and it is this
distinction which makes salvation possible. For error can be corrected,
and the wrong made right.
</div>

Why? Because that&rsquo;s what you want. You don&rsquo;t want to hurt.
You don&rsquo;t want to hold onto errors. Because you&rsquo;re not using
them to make something important out of yourself, you&rsquo;re not using
them as building blocks to create a self-hood that has incredible
control and power.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But sin, were it possible&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and those are the key words.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But sin, were it possible, would be irreversible.
</div>

Not correctable.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The belief in sin is necessarily based on the firm conviction that
MINDS, not bodies, can attack.
</div>

And you all know that you use that skill really well. Maybe you
don&rsquo;t have to use it often, but when it&rsquo;s needed, man,
you&rsquo;ve got the skill!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The belief in sin is necessarily based on the firm conviction that
MINDS, not bodies, can attack. And thus the mind IS guilty, and will
forever so remain unless a mind not part of it can give it absolution.
</div>

Actually, the very fact that you said, &ldquo;Father I want to do things
for myself, I want a divorce&rdquo; and so on, that&rsquo;s really the
only form of attack that needs to be corrected. All other attacks are
copycats. And undoing them will not undo the original. But if you undo
the original, it will undo all of the copycats.

Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[And] thus the mind IS guilty, and will forever so remain unless a mind
not part of it can give it absolution.
</div>

The mind not part of it that can give it absolution is the Holy
Spirit&ndash;that part of the holy Son of God that is being ignored,
that was separate from in an attempt to be autonomous. And its function
is to undo the divorce. Its function is to reinstate your Sanity. Its
function is to heal your mind by making it clear to you that this sin
has never been a sin. What has happened is not irreversible because it
is only an error.

And I promise you, that once you see that all it is, is an error you
will want to let go of it just as though it was appendicitis or a badly
stubbed toe.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Sin calls for punishment as error for correction&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; sin calls for punishment as error calls for correction. But
here&rsquo;s what it says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Sin calls for punishment as error for correction, and the belief that
punishment IS correction is clearly insane.
</div>

In everyone&rsquo;s insanity they use punishment as a means of
correction. They use punishment as correction. And you know it. But it
can only seem to be valid when you think that sin is real, that sin is
actual, that the independence that is being sought can actually be
actualized. And it can&rsquo;t. So punishment will never correct it.
The abandonment of it will be the only thing that will correct it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Sin is not an error, for sin entails an arrogance which the idea of
error lacks.
</div>

No one arrogantly has appendicitis. No one arrogantly has a stubbed toe.
No one arrogantly has a fever. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To sin would be to violate reality, and to SUCCEED.
</div>

You see? Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To sin would be to violate reality, and to SUCCEED.
</div>

Now it&rsquo;s my function to share the truth with you, to show that all
this is, is an error which is correctable and that no sin has occurred
that requires punishment that you cannot escape. When you engage in the
holy instant with a Brother asking of the Father to know what is the
truth here about your Brother? you are helping demonstrate the fact that
their problem is not the result of a sin that they cannot escape the
punishment for, and that it is a mistake that can be corrected. You see?

When you engage in the holy instant and desire to know the truth of your
Father, the function of that act is to cause healing&ndash;correction
that will be accepted.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Sin is the proclamation that attack is real and guilt is justified.
</div>

You did indeed deny your Father and He will never forgive you. And you
will never be able to go back Home and so you must make it on you own.
You see? But that&rsquo;s an error. It&rsquo;s not true.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It assumes the Son of God is guilty, and has thus &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; succeeded in losing his innocence, and making himself what God
created not. Thus is creation seen as not eternal&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see? There we are. You practice faithlessness by attempting
to be independently successful and you cause the Kingdom of Heaven to
seem to be a material world and universe.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Thus is creation seen as not eternal, and the Will of God open to
opposition and defeat.
</div>

Now it can&rsquo;t be true. But if you&rsquo;re sloppy in your thinking,
you can believe anything if it serves you. And it might serve you to
think that God has been defeated because if He hasn&rsquo;t, great
punishment awaits you&ndash;unavoidable punishment awaits you. And so
that causes your obsession with succeeding at being independent to
intensify. You see? It causes you to strive harder to do what you
cannot do and it keeps you unconscious of the fact that freedom to be
what you divinely Are awaits you as a gift held out to you, for you to
take hold of the moment you desire to without any explanation, without
any justification.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Sin is the "grand illusion" underlying all the ego's grandiosity. For by
it, God Himself is changed and rendered incomplete.
</div>

Not true. But if you&rsquo;re going to think on your own, if
you&rsquo;re going to practice faithlessness, you are going to have a
dark, mean-spirited, harsh experience of the Kingdom of Heaven and of
being the Son or Daughter of God, simply because you are committed to
not believe that you&rsquo;re the Son or Daughter of God in the middle
of the Kingdom of Heaven. That&rsquo;s why it&rsquo;s sin. You&rsquo;re
committed to an illusion, committed &hellip; obsessed, it&rsquo;s very
[chuckle] very strong commitment. Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Son of God &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which is what you Are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; can be mistaken; he can deceive himself; he can even turn the
power of his mind against himself. But he CANNOT sin.

he CANNOT sin. There is nothing he &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; there is nothing you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; can do that would REALLY change his reality &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your reality &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in any way, nor make him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; really guilty.
</div>

Now that statement will over-joy the one who doesn&rsquo;t want to
change. There is nothing you can do that would REALLY change your
reality in any way, nor make you really guilty. Glory hallelujah! I have
justification for delaying the correction of my mistake. I can hold onto
what I love longer. But:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is nothing he can do that would REALLY change his reality in any
way, nor make him really guilty.
</div>

But what needs to be corrected still needs to be corrected. False
beliefs and commitments to insane attempts to be what you are not has to
stop, because it causes you to experience the Kingdom of Heaven as a
material world and universe in which you sin, get sick and die, and you
have no choice about it.

And so correction of that has to occur. It isn&rsquo;t true &hellip;
that you are perceiving it is an insanity. But it&rsquo;s not a sin. And
you know what? It&rsquo;s not a disease. It&rsquo;s a misperception held
onto for faulty reasons. And they are correctible if someone not
entertaining your present mindset, who is entertaining the Holy
Spirit&rsquo;s Mindset, joins with you and tells you that what
you&rsquo;re doing needs correcting and there will not be punishment
from its correction. There will be release from the sin, disease and
death that you&rsquo;re already experiencing by virtue of not correcting
it. You see?

And that&rsquo;s what I&rsquo;m doing. And that&rsquo;s what each of you
will do when you choose to practice the holy instant in the context of a
holy relationship. Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is nothing he can do that would REALLY change his reality in any
way, nor make him really guilty. That is what sin would do, for such is
its purpose. Yet for all the wild insanity inherent in the whole idea of
sin, it is IMPOSSIBLE.
</div>

If it is impossible then even though sin seems to have occurred it
hasn&rsquo;t because sin is succeeding at being what you cannot be, sin
is succeeding at denying God and by that denial causing Him to cease to
exist. It cannot be done. It is impossible. You see? That&rsquo;s why
the solution to your dilemma is easy.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For the wages of sin IS death&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that happens to be true. The wages of sin IS death. It&rsquo;s
inescapable &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and how can the immortal die?
</div>

You see? So it&rsquo;s not possible.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For the wages of sin IS death, and how can the immortal die?
</div>

You see? It&rsquo;s irrational. It&rsquo;s meaningless. Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A major tenet in the ego's insane religion is that sin is not error but
TRUTH, and it is INNOCENCE that would deceive.
</div>

INNOCENCE &hellip; oh, how about that which teaches of innocence? The
ego says that which would teach of innocence, like I am doing with you
and like any of you will do with your Brothers if you practice the holy
instant, when I teach of your innocence I am telling the truth, but your
conditioned thinking says, &ldquo;No, it is not. It&rsquo;s a nice idea
that I&rsquo;m a holy Son of God but it certainly isn&rsquo;t actual
enough for me to be experiencing it now. I can&rsquo;t claim my divinity
and stand in the face of error and not be moved by it. I can&rsquo;t
stand with the truth of myself and watch appendicitis [snaps fingers]
vanish, let&rsquo;s say, even in five minutes, much less immediately. I
can&rsquo;t!&rdquo; You see?

So when I tell you these things and I base it on your innocence, and I
teach you of your innocence, it&rsquo;s all turned into a lie, or
something true in the sweet-by-and-by &hellip; but not now. And so
it&rsquo;s denied and you must continue to suffer or you must assume
that it&rsquo;s going to be extremely difficult to demonstrate your
holiness. You see?

And so your faithlessness in the sense of not actually engaging in the
two-step and the holy instant occurs, you refrain from practicing the
two-step with follow-through. And I&rsquo;m here to tell you: engage in
it with follow-through because there is nothing binding you. You have
not sinned. You have not become what you cannot be. And although
you&rsquo;ve imagined that you&rsquo;ve gotten a divorce from your
Father, your Oneness with Him hasn&rsquo;t changed and never will.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Purity is seen as arrogance&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; a poor substitute for the arrogance of being a mean-old-bastard
who can get anything done through force and manipulation, because one is
so excellent at being a mean-old-bastard. You see? That kind of
arrogance is quite acceptable. And the better you get at being a
mean-old-bastard with a certain amount of finesse, the more powerful you
become and of course, the less likely you are going to want to listen to
what I&rsquo;m saying when I say, &ldquo;Stop! The correction of the
problem, the way to move out of the path of sin, sickness and death and
mortality is to stop thinking and to start listening, to join with the
Father&ndash;your Father, who happens to be God, you holy Son of
God&ndash;I&rsquo;m telling you the truth about you.&rdquo; But
you&rsquo;re not going to want to listen to that because you have this
great commitment to still attempting to succeed at the impossible.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Purity &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; anything good &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
 &hellip; is seen as arrogance, and the acceptance of the self as sinful
 is perceived as holiness.
</div>

&ldquo;I&rsquo;m a mean-old-bastard and I&rsquo;m good at it, and it
counts for something. In the long run it counts for something. At the
end of the day it counts for something. And I am going to persist in
what counts for something!&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And it is this doctrine which replaces the reality of the Son of God as
his Father created him, and willed that he be forever.
</div>

You see? It replaces the Reality. You use your mind to blind yourself to
the Reality and at one level or another you know you are doing it. And
therefore, you know that you have denied, or we&rsquo;ll say, attacked
the Father and therefore, you know that you are guilty and therefore,
you know that you cannot avoid punishment. You see? And the cards are
stacked against you skillfully by you. But the cards will fall the
minute you stop all of that mental gymnastics, all of those mental
gymnastics and you shut up and you say, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth
here?&rdquo; It&rsquo;s so simple. The correction is simple because sin
has not occurred, just error.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[And] it is this doctrine which replaces the reality of the Son of God
as his Father created him, and willed that he be forever. Is this
humility? Or is it, rather, an attempt to wrest creation AWAY from
truth, and keep it separate?

Any attempt to re-interpret sin as error &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which I&rsquo;ve just been describing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is always indefensible to the ego.
</div>

So be attentive and watch for the arguments that come up in you that
make such a statement indefensible, meaning, make it something not
reasonable for you to pursue with persistence. See, the whole purpose
would simply be to immobilize you and stop you from discovering that
your cell is not locked&ndash;the door on your cell is unlocked.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The idea of sin is wholly sacrosanct to its thought system, and quite
unapproachable except through reverence and awe.
</div>

Well, just think of Darwin&rsquo;s theories and the awe and the
reverence that are given to them, which account for God in no way at
all, and arrogantly suggest existence and creation to not be the
evidence, the ongoing evidence of a living God, Primal Intelligence,
Love, Life, Truth, Principle, Mind, Soul, Spirit.

It&rsquo;s quite a thought system. And it&rsquo;s a thought system that
sanctifies the idea that you not only don&rsquo;t have a Father, you
didn&rsquo;t have a Father that you got a divorce from. You&rsquo;re
just hanging out there in the wind, Sourceless and Beingless. And
it&rsquo;s not true.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is the most "holy" concept in the ego's system; lovely and powerful,
wholly true, and necessarily protected with every defense at its
disposal.
</div>

In other words, that sin is true, sin is not an error.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For here lies its "best" defense, which all the others serve. Here is
its armor, its protection, and the fundamental purpose of the special
relationship in its interpretation.
</div>

What is it that it defends you against? It defends you against the truth
that there is a God, that you are the direct expression of God, every
moment brand new. That you are the living current expression of a living
current God, and you are holy and the environment infinitely that you
exist in, is the Kingdom of Heaven and you&rsquo;re supposed to be
experiencing it without any distortions whatsoever. And you can have the
experience because you didn&rsquo;t actually do anything that&rsquo;s
irrevocable that will keep you from experiencing your Birthright and
because the only thing that stand between you and the clear glorious
experience of Reality is a mistake, an error which is correctible.
It&rsquo;s a mistake which holds no eternal meaning in itself, which if
you just simply abandon it, &ldquo;Oops, I dropped it in the middle of
the ocean &hellip; Oops, I dropped it!&rdquo; You see? That&rsquo;s the
simplicity of it.

Now I will briefly touch on this tonight: Now that you know that the
practice of the holy instant will not spontaneously cause correction,
because there are those who will insist upon holding onto that which
needs to be corrected and not let it be corrected. You must begin to
consider a new &hellip; what you will do when you&rsquo;re confronted by
that.

Now I don&rsquo;t want you to imagine what you will do, I want you to
ask. I want you to ask within &hellip; what do you do? What do you do
with someone who is unwilling to be healed?

I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: T19.2 Sin vs Error

