---
title: Aug 11, 2012
ref: "T19.2 Sin vs Error"
alink: "/acim/text/19/chap1902/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Last week I posed a question at the very end for everyone to consider.
And the question was: &ldquo;What do you do with someone who is
unwilling to be healed?&rdquo;

Now of course, we talked about the fact that some things everyone wants
to be healed of: sickness, injury, accident, so on. But the things that
people don&rsquo;t want to be healed of are the things that they are
committed to toward the accomplishment of unintelligent conclusions
&hellip; like being an independent agent for change, like being an
orphan&mdash;someone without a Source, someone who is committed to
becoming real even though he has no Source, and who has caused
&ldquo;becoming real&rdquo; to be his life work.

This is someone who does not want to hear that he is to abandon that
endeavor, because he is already real. He&rsquo;s just not real in his
own right.

You see, at the bottom line, after one said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d
rather see things my way, do things my way and determine the meaning of
everything,&rdquo; after saying that to the Father, one was faced with
the demand to prove himself to be righteous. Righteous: meaning,
including all right ideas, including all that was true, including all
that makes him real in his own right.

The result of such a goal would be to arrive at a point of true
self-righteousness. That is sin. It&rsquo;s the intent to accomplish
something that cannot be accomplished and to do it with determination
&hellip; to do it with commitment. But even that&rsquo;s not enough. The
easiest way to put it is that sin is an act engaged in through
addiction. It&rsquo;s not just a goal. It&rsquo;s not just an idea. But
it&rsquo;s a meaning that one attempts to accomplish through force of
emotion &hellip; dedicated emotion &hellip; undying emotion.

Now, what could promote undying emotion that drives one relentlessly
toward a goal&mdash;this specific goal?

Well, if the one engaging in it has no Source and is attempting to make
a righteous entity out of himself, he&rsquo;s trying to make himself
real. He&rsquo;s trying to make himself real in his own right.

Now what happens if he doesn&rsquo;t succeed? Well you see, he
can&rsquo;t even consider that because he must succeed in order to prove
his existence is actual. So the addiction to the accomplishment of that
arises out of a fear and a premonition that he will not exist if he
doesn&rsquo;t succeed. In other words, he will dissolve into
nothingness. He will cease to exist. You could say, he will
die&mdash;you will die. You see?

Now that constitutes motivation. And the fear of dying or the insatiable
intent to exist as that which is righteous and real is a goal that will
never on its own, die. It will not cease. You see?

How does one accomplish this goal? One thinks. One thinks, one observes,
ignoring of course the fact that what he&rsquo;s observing he
didn&rsquo;t create. But he doesn&rsquo;t ask where it came from? Oh
yes, it came from &ldquo;the Big Bang.&rdquo; It was a 
physical event&mdash;a universal, physical event &hellip; pretty amazing
stuff. Okay. So he observes everything. He defines everything through
the use of his mind and his imagination. And then he evaluates
everything and he evaluates his Brothers and Sisters and comes to
conclusions about them and always, the measuring stick of those
conclusions is their demonstration of their righteousness.

So you see, what&rsquo;s created out of this addiction&mdash;out of this
goal&mdash;is that one himself engages in demonstrating and proving his
righteousness so that he can exercise authority and control, period.
Secondly, he requires everyone else to prove their righteousness. You
see? So not only is there this inner fear of death if one doesn&rsquo;t
succeed at proving his righteousness and his independent actuality or
reality, he is faced with the demand of everyone else to prove his
righteousness to their satisfaction. You see?

Everyone else reinforces his addiction because the proving of
righteousness and the actualizing of it in social settings, in
cooperation, in governing, and so on, it all creates the climate of
competition and keeps the addiction fed. The addiction is there just
because of inner fear of death but with everyone requiring everyone else
to demonstrate their righteousness to the satisfaction of the
investigator simply substantiates the insanity further. You see?

This is very important to understand.

Now always, this interaction of the Sons and Daughters of God involves
deceit. You see? It&rsquo;s not honest! Because no one is really
disclosing to everyone else that he&rsquo;s feeling invalid&mdash;that
he doesn&rsquo;t feel a Birthright that holds him securely in the grasp
of, I&rsquo;m going to say, holiness&mdash;wholeness&mdash;but holiness.
No one discloses that. Everyone says, you know, that God or the
&ldquo;Powers that Be&rdquo; gave them a mind and a body and a will of
their own to use as they wish and therefore, it&rsquo;s their right.
It&rsquo;s not only their right, it&rsquo;s their
calling&mdash;it&rsquo;s that which they must engage in.

But they don&rsquo;t disclose this. They say, &ldquo;I was created to be
independent. I was created to do this. I was created to evolve my
righteousness.&rdquo; And what&rsquo;s not stated is that that
righteousness is going to be used for control, not necessarily for the
best interests of everyone being controlled. And the reverse is the case
as well. So the controller needs to be wary of not being controlled by
others who are exercising the same right and the same practice&mdash;the
same addiction.

So the answer to the question is an answer that no one is really going
to like. And I mention this because it&rsquo;s characteristic of truth
that is revealed as you reach out for Guidance, that it will very often
contradict your beliefs, your faiths, your confidences. You see?

And I&rsquo;m going to answer the question: &ldquo;What do you do with
someone who is unwilling to be healed?&rdquo; by just illustrating what
I told my disciples: I told them that if they go into a town or a
village or a place where they are not welcomed, that they are to leave
and to &ldquo;shake the dust from off thy feet.&rdquo; [^1] Meaning, when
you leave the town, shake off everything about the town and leave it
with the town and move on. I didn&rsquo;t say this&mdash;it&rsquo;s not
recorded&mdash;but the point was, go where you are welcome, go where you
will not be rebuffed. Go where the truth that you are sharing will not
be argued against. Don&rsquo;t try to change the minds of those who are
unwilling to be healed.

Does that sound unspiritual? Does that sound unholy? Does that sound
unloving?

No. As you lean into the holy instant, as you enquire of the Holy Spirit
or of your Guide or of the Father, &ldquo;What is the truth here?&rdquo;
and it is revealed to you, it doesn&rsquo;t mean that you&rsquo;ve moved
into a holy activity which must fulfill your preconceptions of what a
holy activity would be, else you will attempt to construe what
you&rsquo;re hearing through the sieve of your preconception and try to
practice something that wasn&rsquo;t meant.

If you&rsquo;re listening carefully and if you&rsquo;re being used by
someone who asks for help but is unwilling to receive it, you&rsquo;re
not to abandon intelligence, you simply say to this one: &ldquo;There is
not honesty in what you&rsquo;re engaging in with me. You&rsquo;re
asking for the answer but you are unwilling to accept the answer because
you have another agenda. When you actually want to know the truth and
receive it&mdash;embrace it&mdash;call me. But until then, I won&rsquo;t
validate your deceitful activity by joining you in it and being
manipulated by it.&rdquo; You see?

There are rules. There is &ldquo;the way things work.&rdquo;

For example, when Paul first heard that there was such a thing as inner
Guidance, and he decided to sit down and take time regularly to reach
out to it, he did it as a practice, an intelligent application of his
attention. And he did this for a couple of weeks, every night, sometimes
more than once a day and heard nothing. And as I&rsquo;ve shared before,
there was a point at which he got perturbed and impatient, and he said
to whoever was out there, &ldquo;I have better things to do than sit
here and ask and ask and ask and not hear anything.&rdquo;

Well, he still didn&rsquo;t get any answer that night. But over the next
twenty-four hours, he realized that his exercise of impatience and
demand indicated that he was coming from a place of control&mdash;that
he was trying to make the event of communion happen. He realized that,
in so many words, he was trying to twist the Universe&rsquo;s arm. And
it registered with him that it wouldn&rsquo;t work.

The next night he sat down humbly, his attitude was, &ldquo;if it takes
a year of sitting down every night and listening without hearing an
answer, I will do it because I do not want to bring willfulness into the
process.&rdquo; Without my even speaking with him directly, it became
clear to him that willfulness brought into the attempt at communion with
his Guide would absolutely block the communication.

So you see, if someone is intent on being an independent agent and he
tries to connect with the Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more
than his right Mind&mdash;or his Guide or the Father, no communication
will occur because his willfulness will block it. In so many words, his
willfulness will constitute a dissonance that will cause him not to hear
the answer that&rsquo;s given every time he or any of you ask for
Guidance.

So that&rsquo;s the way it works. If you bring willfulness into your
engagement with Guidance, you will hear nothing. If a town does not
welcome the truth, they will hear nothing. Except in the case with my
disciples or we&rsquo;ll say even in the case with Paul where he can
hear me, and relay to you, it is not appropriate to engage because of
the deceit in the activity.

And so intelligence must prevail and say, &ldquo;No. But when you are
ready to embrace the truth, when you really want to change, I will be
present and we will talk and we will be together and there will be
healing.&rdquo;

Now it&rsquo;s important to talk to those who are willing to hear.
Because each one that hears, [snaps fingers] each one who experiences an
&ldquo;aha&rdquo; and is led to abandon their independence and seek
Guidance and give it preference to their own best thinking, they will,
by virtue of the illumination in them of the Father&rsquo;s Perspective,
be agents for change.

And so more and more of the Sons and Daughters of God who have been
dreaming will stop dreaming. And the result will be that the camaraderie
of unity of dreams will weaken. And those who have felt the support of
their independent stance and the viability of their insanity and
addiction will find their resolve weakening because the withdrawal of
mutual agreement among their Brothers and Sisters will make it harder to
support the commitment.

And so even the towns where my disciples left, or those whom you
discontinued involvement with, will find themselves, I&rsquo;m going to
say, beginning to spontaneously experience
clarity&mdash;clarification&mdash;healing.

You cannot afford to become preoccupied with those who do not want to
hear the truth but want to argue it or who want to engage you and pepper
you with question after question so that they can provide a further
stumbling block to you and enjoy your dilemma of trying to help them.
You see?

That can be satisfying too and it could take you quite a while to
realize that you&rsquo;re being used and that the other one is enjoying
watching you squirm. Then intelligence comes into play and you say, with
meaning and with understanding that you have better things to do than
engage in futility, and you say, &ldquo;No.&rdquo; And you leave the
vicinity and you shake whatever remnants of the interchange are that
might be lingering. You can&rsquo;t leave it and be angry about it.
You&rsquo;ve got to leave it behind because there is a step that must
occur. It&rsquo;s matter of fact. It&rsquo;s black and white. It&rsquo;s
simple. It&rsquo;s intelligent and it is free of distress. You say
&ldquo;no&rdquo; to a deceitful, dishonest involvement and you require
that the future involvement be honest. That is holy.    

Now, let&rsquo;s go into the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It can indeed be said the ego made its world on sin.[^2]
</div>

Well first of all, what&rsquo;s happening in the state of independence
from the Father is that a self must be imagined, an independent
self&mdash;one who has all the capacity to become real that is needed
and so on.

So this self that is brought forth is what is referred to as the ego and
it makes its world on sin. What does it make it on? What is the sin? The
sin is the insane and addicted goal of becoming righteous independently
and doing it with an incapacity to falter in that goal because faltering
means death, utter failure, nonexistence. And that is all it takes to
keep the addiction maximal.

The ego made its world on this. It determines what its world is from
that context. You see? It&rsquo;s not that a sinful thing was done,
&ldquo;Oh, he was immoral with her!&rdquo; What a distraction.
It&rsquo;s a distraction from the correction of sin because, as you can
see, there&rsquo;s no way you can get from his being immoral with her to
the issue of being addicted to the goal of being a successful,
fully-realized, independent entity. Hey:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only in such a world could everything be upside-down.
</div>

A hundred-and-eighty-degrees out of sync. Where sin, disease and death
replace life, truth and love. You see? A hundred-and-eighty-degrees out
of sync.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
 This is the strange illusion which makes the clouds of guilt seem heavy
 and impenetrable.
</div>

What clouds of guilt? Well, the guilt that you imagine you&rsquo;re
engaged in. The guilt that you imagine is a result of your not
succeeding yet&mdash;your failing at your goal even though you&rsquo;re
trying. And the guilt that is inseparable from your initial act of
divorcing your Father: &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my way. I
am not interested in Your perspective any longer.&rdquo;

The nature of addiction is: That it causes you to not experience the joy
of being, but the distress of being that covers everything in a heavy
and impenetrable way. It&rsquo;s depressing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The solidness this world's foundation seems to have &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the one of the ego&rsquo;s creating &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is found in this. For sin has changed creation from an Idea of
God to an ideal the ego wants;
</div>

&hellip; and this is very important: It didn&rsquo;t create a universe
that isn&rsquo;t real. Listen:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For sin has changed creation from &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what it Is &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; an Idea of God to an ideal the ego wants;
</div>

&hellip; it&rsquo;s a mental shift that doesn&rsquo;t change the
actuality of the Kingdom of Heaven or Creation, but alters the
experience or perception of it. And so there&rsquo;s not a universe
that&rsquo;s going to disappear, but Creation is going to emerge out of
the distortion that the addiction to becoming righteous blocks. You will
not see Creation as it is until you abandon your independence, join with
the Father, with inquiry that you&rsquo;re willing to accept the answers
to. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[For] sin has changed creation from an Idea of God &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not in actuality, because that&rsquo;s impossible, but
it&rsquo;s changed the perception of it. It &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; changed creation from an Idea of God to an ideal the ego wants;
a world IT rules, made up of bodies, mindless and capable of complete
corruption and decay.
</div>

Sin, disease and death&mdash;the human condition, which is simply a
misperception of Creation in all of Its perfection. Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If this is a mistake, it can be undone easily by truth.
</div>

If it&rsquo;s an error&mdash;the section we&rsquo;re reading is called
SIN VERSUS ERROR&mdash;if it&rsquo;s error it&rsquo;s correctible.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If this is a mistake, it can be undone easily by truth.
</div>

Well you say, &ldquo;It sure hasn&rsquo;t been happening for me!&rdquo;
Well, be sure that as you enter into your desire to hear the
truth&mdash;to hear Guidance&mdash;that you&rsquo;re not bringing this
sort of arrogant obtuse flavor, &ldquo;Well, it hasn&rsquo;t been easy
for me.&rdquo; You see? That&rsquo;s an emotion. That&rsquo;s an idea.
It&rsquo;s an evaluation and the energy of it will keep you from
hearing. It&rsquo;s not useful. You say, &ldquo;Well, I sure feel
it.&rdquo;

Well, let&rsquo;s get something else clear. There&rsquo;s a difference
between feeling and emotions. If you&rsquo;re angry, if you&rsquo;re
upset, if you&rsquo;re depressed, if you&rsquo;re jealous, these are
emotions. They have nothing to do with Soul. But feelings, on the other
hand, have only to do with Soul. Feelings are love, joy, peace, awe, the
recognition of good without anything obscuring it. These are feelings.
They are the capacity of Soul to experience God&rsquo;s Meanings in
Creation without interference.

Emotions that you call feelings are something you can relish and roll
around in your mind and dwell with for long periods of time. And because
you feel them, you think that your expression of them is an honest
expression of you, when they are simply misunderstandings,
misinterpretations that disallow you from experiencing Reality&mdash;the
Kingdom of Heaven and feeling the Meaning of It. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Any mistake can be corrected, if truth be left to judge it. But if the
mistake &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the goal of becoming righteous &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; if the mistake is given the STATUS of truth, to what can it be
brought?
</div>

You see? Lifted to the status of truth, why it&rsquo;s supreme and it
will govern you. And the addiction that arises out of the fear of
death&mdash;your failure to become an actualized independent
entity&mdash;you will not find release from. And yet that is what Waking
up is the release from. That&rsquo;s what Atonement is the release from.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The "holiness" of sin is kept in place by just this strange device.
</div>

What strange device? The device of raising the mistake to the status of
truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As truth it is inviolate, and everything is brought to IT for judgment.
</div>

And it&rsquo;s brought to it for judgment with vengeance, because if you
don&rsquo;t practice this clearly, succinctly and with pure logic you
will delay your arriving at the point of becoming an actualized,
righteous, independent being and you will die.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As truth &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that the mistake has been raised to the status of truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As truth it is inviolate, and everything is brought to IT for judgment.
</div>

But:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As a mistake, IT must be brought to truth.
</div>

Now the simple fact is, that you wouldn&rsquo;t bring it to truth
because of your commitment to it. And that&rsquo;s why the word
&ldquo;sin&rdquo; is applied to it, because you bring commitment to
staying asleep, even though you can&rsquo;t succeed. It&rsquo;s
unachievable. And you cannot realize it on your own when you&rsquo;re
under its influence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is however impossible to have faith in sin, for sin IS
faithlessness.
</div>

Faithlessness &hellip; being your claim to be independent from the
Father and to rely upon yourself. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet it IS possible to have faith that a mistake can be corrected.
</div>

And so I am telling you that the whole human condition, the insane
attempt to become righteous in your own right is something that cannot
be accomplished. And therefore, your additive belief that it can be
accomplished is nothing more than a mistake. If it&rsquo;s a mistake,
it&rsquo;s an error. And an error can be corrected. And an error can be
corrected very simply.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no stone in all the ego's embattled citadel more heavily
defended than the idea that sin is real; the natural expression of what
the Son of God has made himself to be, and what he IS.
</div>

That&rsquo;s the claim anyway.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To the ego, this is NO MISTAKE.
</div>

You know, the commitment to righteousness. There&rsquo;s no way that can
be seen as a mistake. It seems very real. It seems very reasonable. And
yet the goal of righteousness does not have righteousness as its goal,
it has the goal of making something that isn&rsquo;t real&mdash;a self
that doesn&rsquo;t exist, real. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To the ego, this is NO MISTAKE. For this IS its reality; this is the
"truth" from which escape will always be impossible.
</div>

Impossible, without a perspective being provided by those who are not
under the influence of the addiction.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is his past, his present and his future.
</div>

The one who&rsquo;s going for the goal.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For he has somehow managed to corrupt his Father&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; No &hellip; not.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For he has somehow managed to corrupt his Father, and changed His Mind
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Father&rsquo;s Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; completely.
</div>

That&rsquo;s the belief. If it isn&rsquo;t believed that the
Father&rsquo;s Mind has been changed completely, then no one would be
engaged in the goal of righteousness as the action of an addiction.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Mourn, then, the death of God, Whom sin has killed! And this would be
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the ego's wish, which in its madness it thinks it has
ACCOMPLISHED.
</div>

Mind you, it hasn&rsquo;t and it&rsquo;s not true and the suffering
associated with the human condition is something you can be released
from easily, because it is an error. It is only a mistake.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you not RATHER that all this be nothing more than a mistake,
entirely correctable, and so easily escaped from that its whole
correction is like walking through a mist into the sun? For that is all
it is.
</div>

Too hard to believe? I&rsquo;m sorry, don&rsquo;t bring that feeling or
idea into your listening for Guidance to know &ldquo;what is the truth
here?&rdquo; Don&rsquo;t bring that which casts a shadow on your path
causing the Light to be obscured from you. Don&rsquo;t you be that which
the shadow identifies. Abandon the shadow. Abandon the doubt. Abandon
the mistake.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Perhaps you would be tempted to agree with the ego that it is far better
to be sinful than mistaken.
</div>

Well, it&rsquo;s far better to have an addictive goal that promises
fulfillment, pure full-fledged, self-righteousness, than it is to be
mistaken. Because if you&rsquo;re mistaken, then you must stop doing the
thing that guarantees your life! And that means that your life
won&rsquo;t be guaranteed. That&rsquo;s too risky. That&rsquo;s too
dangerous. That&rsquo;s too unrealistic, when the actuality is that that
is the threshold of release into Wholeness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet think you carefully before you allow yourself to make this choice.
Approach it not lightly, for it IS the choice of hell or Heaven.
</div>

Now because you&rsquo;re experiencing or seem to be subject to sin,
sickness and death, you&rsquo;ve already made the choice incorrectly.
And that&rsquo;s why the Holy Spirit, your Guides, myself and God must
bring the truth to your attention from a place outside the addiction,
and penetrate the addictive perspective and introduce an idea
perpendicular to, out of phase with the addiction and the commitment to
it, so that a light bulb might go on and you say, &ldquo;Whoa, there is
another way to look at this &hellip; there is another way to be.&rdquo;
And then invite it.

I tell you, the subject of Sin Versus Error could have seemed to be a
really heavy complicated thing. I mean, sin can be so humongous and all
pervasive and controlling of you, putting you at such a disadvantage
that you might as well just ignore it and live out this lifetime. But it
is vital and it is interesting and it&rsquo;s easy to see the difference
between sin and error. And it&rsquo;s easier, since we&rsquo;ve been
talking about it, to see how you employ it, how you foil your attempts
to Wake up, because you so easily backslide and begin once again to rely
upon your best thinking, your best judgments, your conditionings, all of
the agreements that you&rsquo;ve made with everyone about what things
are. You see?

But those agreements don&rsquo;t have to be honored. You are free to
abandon them and choose for the Perspective that undoes the illusion of
sin and corrects it because all it was, was a mistake.

Thank you for listening. Thank you for hearing. I look forward to being
with you next time.

[^1]: Mathew 10:14
[^2]: T19.2 Sin vs Error

