---
title: Aug 18, 2012
ref: "T19.3 The Unreality of Sin"
alink: "/acim/text/19/chap1903/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet. Well, we&rsquo;re going to spend another delightful evening
talking about the wonderful subject of sin and fear and guilt.

You see, it&rsquo;s only when you don&rsquo;t know what sin and fear and
guilt are and what function they perform, that it would seem to be an
unpleasant subject to consider or a frightening one. But it is truly
wonderful to understand what they are or as is the case tonight, what
they aren&rsquo;t&mdash;The Unreality Of Sin, not the reality of sin.

Now before we begin, I want to remind everyone that in the beginning of
the human condition&mdash;in the beginning of all that everyone is
wanting to get out of&mdash;something simple happened: Two Sons or
Daughters of God chose to join together and to abandon their union with
their Father and get a divorce from God. And through the use of their
Mind&mdash;which they completely overlook was in them because the Father
placed it there&mdash;they decided to determine the meaning of
everything and do it independently of God but joined together with each
other.

Now as I&rsquo;ve said before, when that decision was made and committed
to, two things came into play. You remember what they are? Fear and
guilt. They, like two sides of a coin, are always present together. They
are always functioning together or against each other. And what it is
imperative for everyone to understand is that that divorce, that
decision and the introduction of fear and guilt didn&rsquo;t happen in
the past. It&rsquo;s always been a current practice of each one of you.
The divorce is being certified, you might say, now, now, now, now, now,
every moment in which you determine that you are going to decide what
everything means.

So you don&rsquo;t have an actual lengthy history that has built up a
residual strength in you that it is going to be difficult for you to
overcome because the only thing that is keeping you from being Awake is
a decision that is occurring now, now, now, now&hellip;now, now. And all
that you need to do to escape from that decision is to decide something
else, now, now, now, now, now.

And that something else is to say, &ldquo;Father, &rdquo; as the
beginning of a sentence, as the beginning of a conversation, as the
beginning of an involvement with God, &ldquo;Father&hellip;&rdquo; and
then say whatever else you want to say, &ldquo;, what is the truth here?
What does this mean? Is it okay for me to sit here and do nothing? Is it
okay for me to do something? Share with me Your Perspective of
everything that I&rsquo;m seeing because I understand that, although it
looks to me like a physical universe, that it&rsquo;s really the Kingdom
of Heaven seen through a glass darkly&mdash;seen through misperceptions
that I&rsquo;m introducing. So Father, I&rsquo;m going to be still with
You and ask: Will you share with me how You are seeing everything
that&rsquo;s in front of me because I want to have the shared experience
of Reality rather than the isolated experience of illusion.&rdquo;

It&rsquo;s that simple. And all you have to do is do that now, now, now, 
now, now, now. Because the only thing that&rsquo;s keeping you in the dark
is something that you&rsquo;re doing now, now, now, now, now. This is the
simplicity of it. If you make more of it than that, if you make it more
complicated than that and you believe yourself, you will be making a
decision not to see the truth now, now, now, now, now &hellip; not because
you did something in the past.

So, a new section:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Unreality of Sin*[^1]
</div>

I guess we better remind ourselves what sin means since it&rsquo;s a
very different definition than the one generally accepted. Sin is an act
that you engage in to attempt to accomplish the impossible. And
it&rsquo;s not just any impossible, it&rsquo;s a very specific
impossible. It is the attempt to be something in your own right without
any connection to God. And it is the attempt to be something with such
conviction and commitment that you will not, for any reason, give up the
attempt.

And as we discussed last week, that goal has become an
obsession&mdash;an addiction. And what has caused it to be an addiction
is the fear that if you do not accomplish establishing your autonomous
reality, you will die. And so you will do anything you can to not die
and that&rsquo;s what brings the obsessive addictive element into the
picture.

That is the meaning of sin. It is You, the Son or Daughter of God,
claiming vehemently, adamantly and totally that you&rsquo;re not a Son
or Daughter of God, that you are an entity in your own right and by
dammit, you&rsquo;re gonna prove it!

Now it begins, this section:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The attraction of guilt is found in sin, not error.
</div>

Guilt&mdash;the attraction to guilt&mdash;does not attach itself to
error. Because when you make a mistake, you don&rsquo;t want to hold on
to the mistake. But when it comes to sin, you refuse, as I said, to give
it up because if you do, you will die. What does the well-known
statement say? &ldquo;The wages of sin is death.&rdquo;[^2]

Of course, [chuckle] it&rsquo;s not referring to sin as I am, it&rsquo;s
referring to sins you can engage in in the world and with your fellowman
or against your fellowman. But nevertheless, the experience of what sin
truly is&mdash;the attempt to be something you cannot be&mdash;does
promise death which is exactly why you are addicted to proving
successfully, that you are a whole, real, puppet&mdash;a whole real
person instead of a puppet, like Pinocchio.

So where does guilt come into the picture&mdash;the attraction of guilt?
What could be attractive about guilt? What would make you use guilt to
accomplish your goal, which is sin? Guilt is attractive in the same
sense that sirens are attractive to seafarers to lure them onto the
rocks and destroy them and their ships.[^3] Guilt is used to attract.
It&rsquo;s used to attract you and others to try even harder than you
are to become an independent entity, which you cannot become.

Always that which attracts one to an addiction is a promise of wholeness
that one doesn&rsquo;t currently have. That&rsquo;s what makes it
attractive, that&rsquo;s what seems to make it believable.

Now in order to accomplish anything with guilt, it has to be used for a
purpose. And the interesting thing is that you will never use guilt on
yourself. Guilt is always used on someone else. Have you ever heard of
&ldquo;guilting&rdquo; someone into behaving well? &ldquo;Oh, yes
&hellip; we guilted him sufficiently to cause him to change his ways in
order to become free of the guilt trip we were laying on him.&rdquo;

Now guilt is an unavailable and non-existent experience to the holy Son
or Daughter of God who hasn&rsquo;t gotten a divorce from the Father.
But the moment the divorce&mdash;the moment the separation&mdash;was
finalized by commitment, relationships became the arena in which guilt
and fear took form&mdash;manifested.

Now it&rsquo;s interesting &hellip; you can use guilt on someone to get
them to conform to your rules&mdash;to those things that benefit you and
make you apparently more real and respectable. And others can and will
attempt to use guilt on you for the same reason.

Now I said that you will never use it on yourself, but you will in an
indirect way. You will use your Brother or Sister as justification for
feeling guilty. You will lay a guilt trip on yourself by saying,
&ldquo;Mary will think thus and thus about me if I do this
&hellip;&rdquo; or &ldquo;Joe does think poorly of me. He thinks
I&rsquo;m guilty. He thinks I&rsquo;m guilty and this is dangerous to
me, this is impractical for me because I need him to be my friend, I
need him to be on my side, I need him to succumb to the guilt trips I
lay on him for the good of everyone, of course.&rdquo;

So you see, you in a negative appraisal of yourself can guilt yourself
by projecting the source of the guilt on others around you when they
aren&rsquo;t projecting a guilt trip on you at all.

Now what is there about guilt that could be delicious? Delicious like a
siren speaking to the seafarers&mdash;delicious and attractive, to pull
one&rsquo;s attention in a direction that is self-defeating?

Believe it or not, guilt is the sweetener that makes the drug of choice
easier to swallow, causing the goal to apparently become easier to
attain. You say, &ldquo;Oh, I don&rsquo;t like to feel guilty&rdquo; but
you use guilt&mdash;every single one of you use it. You use it on
yourself, through projection on others laying a guilt trip on you. And
you use it &hellip; you know what? &hellip;you use it to keep yourself
unconscious of the truth. You use it to ensure beyond a shadow of a
doubt, that you are going to stay on your quest to independent,
righteous self-hood without anything getting in the way.

You feel guilt and you say, &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t like the clutching in
the area of my solar plexus. I don&rsquo;t like the uneasiness. I
don&rsquo;t like the churning that makes me feel like throwing
up.&rdquo; But you know what? How many of you put it down? I&rsquo;m not
asking how many of you argue it away. I&rsquo;m asking, how many of you
just set it down as though it&rsquo;s meaningless, as though
you&rsquo;re not going to indulge in it anymore? And why not? You can
&hellip; and that&rsquo;s the point.

The feeling of guilt is used by you to spur you further in the direction
of accomplishing your impossible goal. It&rsquo;s like negative
attention. Negative attention can get more benefit to you if
you&rsquo;re lonely than positive attention, if there isn&rsquo;t a lot
of it.

So this brings us to the next point. Why do you use guilt? Because at
the bottom line, you don&rsquo;t want to feel lonely. And when you got
the divorce from your Father, your inseparability from your Brothers and
Sisters and all Creation got interrupted&mdash;got separated into bits
and pieces&mdash;and you found yourself alone with a need to establish
connection. And guilt helps you establish connection, not by healing
anything, but rather by complicating the situation, complicating the
relationships so that you must apply yourself with more diligence to
bringing about equilibrium. You see?

And you use guilt as a means of control in the relationship. It&rsquo;s
all crazy. It&rsquo;s all insane, because as the subject of this section
says, sin is unreal&mdash;The Unreality Of Sin.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The attraction of guilt is found in sin, not error.
</div>

It&rsquo;s like there are two arenas: Sin and error&mdash;devotion to
insanity and an arena of mistakes. And it&rsquo;s only in the arena of
sin that the attraction of guilt exists.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Sin will be repeated BECAUSE of this attraction.
</div>

You see? Mistakes are not repeated because of an attraction to making
mistakes. But:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Sin will be repeated BECAUSE of this attraction. Fear can become so
acute that the sin is denied the acting out, but while the guilt remains
attractive the mind will suffer, and not let go of the idea of sin.
</div>

You see? You can guilt someone into good behavior but you can&rsquo;t
make the belief in sin go away and you can&rsquo;t make the guilt go
away. You can just change the behavior artificially, when what you want
is a change of behavior because of healing&mdash;actual transformation,
actual abandonment of the idea that you can do the impossible, so that
you stop trying.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; while the guilt remains attractive the mind will suffer, and
not let go of the idea of sin. For guilt still calls to it, and the mind
hears it and yearns for it&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; heads right for the rocks, seduced by the attractiveness, the
sweetness &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; making itself a willing captive to its sick appeal.
</div>

Now mind you, this is something every single one of you who hears my
voice is doing right now. Interesting that you haven&rsquo;t died from
it yet. More than interesting it&rsquo;s a clue: If you haven&rsquo;t
died from it, then perhaps you haven&rsquo;t accomplished the sins. And
perhaps you haven&rsquo;t accomplished the sins because they&rsquo;re
un-accomplishable and therefore there is no such thing as sin as an
actuality&mdash;as a demonstrated object&mdash;Real.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Sin is an idea of evil that CANNOT be corrected, and will be forever
desirable.
</div>

Is that an unfair? Is that something that some malevolent force has laid
upon you? No. It&rsquo;s just the way the Kingdom of Heaven and the holy
Son and Daughter of God are experienced when that holy Son or Daughter
of God, in this moment now, now, now, now, is attempting not to be the Son
or Daughter of God. It says that to be a Son or Daughter of God is
unbelievable. &ldquo;How can I believe that about myself &hellip; sinner
that I am?&rdquo;

You know, it&rsquo;s a time honored law, imagined law, that everyone is
a sinner. It&rsquo;s imagined, because no one yet has been able to
accomplish sin. No one has yet been able to accomplish becoming an
independent entity in his own right with no Father, with no God, period.
It hasn&rsquo;t happened.

So although this sounds very serious, because everyone is practicing
this, the effect is minor compared to death, compared to an end, a
forever end&mdash;extinction. A few aches or pains here or there these
are minor compared to death.

So you don&rsquo;t need to get too alarmed that you may be engaging in
sin, engaging in the convicted attempt to accomplish what you
can&rsquo;t accomplish. And you can dare to consider that all it takes
is a new devotion now, now, now, now, now. And that&rsquo;s all. Just
abandoning the old devotion now, now, now. That&rsquo;s all.

And so although:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Sin is an idea of evil that CANNOT be corrected, and will be forever
desirable.
</div>

&hellip; it doesn&rsquo;t make any difference because sin is unreal.
There is no such thing as it, except as an imagination. That means that
all it is, is a mistake that&rsquo;s correctible, that stands present to
be corrected because that&rsquo;s what mistakes are for.

Now speaking of sin: 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As an essential part of what the ego thinks you are&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as an essential part of what your present sense of self thinks
you are, as an essential part of what the church thinks you are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will ALWAYS want it.
</div>

Amazing. But it &rsquo;tain&rsquo;t so! &rsquo;tain&rsquo;t so!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As an essential part of what the ego thinks you are, you will ALWAYS
want it. And only an avenger, with a mind unlike your own, could stamp
it out through fear.
</div>

See? A bigger mistaken one than the ego you think you are. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; could stamp it out through fear.
</div>

But that isn&rsquo;t what will get rid of it. It is, we&rsquo;ll say:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And only an avenger, with a mind unlike your own&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; like the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; could stamp it out through &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; love. Could stamp it out through a different choice. Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego does not think it possible that love, not fear, is really called
upon by sin&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; but you see, if sin is a mistake, it calls for correction.
That&rsquo;s all. It&rsquo;s simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego does not think it possible that love, not fear, is really called
upon by sin, and always ANSWERS.
</div>

It never fails to answer. But the ego doesn&rsquo;t think that&rsquo;s
possible, of course.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For the ego brings sin to FEAR&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the other side of the coin, the other part of the partnership
that&rsquo;s always present. And they always play off of each other or
against each other in a dance that keeps the dream going, instead of
directing your attention where the solution is, which is to annul the
divorce.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For the ego brings sin to FEAR&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; listen &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; demanding &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; What?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; punishment. Yet punishment is but another form of guilt's
protection &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; more of the insane reasoning &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for what is deserving punishment must have been really DONE.
</div>

You see the use of logic there? The claim is that punishment is
deserved. And then everyone else come up with the conclusion:
&ldquo;Well, if it&rsquo;s deserved, then what it&rsquo;s deserved for
must have actually been accomplished.&rdquo; So if &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the ego brings sin to FEAR, demanding punishment.
</div>

&hellip; then, as I said, what is deserving punishment must have been
really done.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Punishment is always the great preserver of sin;
</div>

&ldquo;Well, he went to jail, he must have done it!&rdquo; Ten years
later, &ldquo;Oh, I&rsquo;m sorry, we did some DNA testing and although
he served time and he was punished, he didn&rsquo;t do it. Oh dear, well
that&rsquo;s the way it goes.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; punishment is but another form of guilt's protection for what
is deserving punishment must have been really DONE. Punishment is always
the great preserver of sin; treating it with respect, and honoring its
enormity. For what you think is real you WANT, and will not let it go.
</div>

Um &hellip; you see? You think that you are autonomous. You think you
are a product of a physical universe. You think you can become something
on your own and that although God may have created this universe, which
is like a perpetual motion machine, you are now left free to make
something out of yourself and it&rsquo;s a God-given right. It&rsquo;s
what you are here for.

But there&rsquo;s this fear of dying. And so you better make your time
count. And there are even loop-holes: If you don&rsquo;t quite get it
right this lifetime you&rsquo;ll have another lifetime to perfect
yourself further. You see? When what&rsquo;s needed is to step off the
merry-go-round to say, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m not playing this game
anymore.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s your right. And that&rsquo;s what I&rsquo;m
telling you about. And that&rsquo;s what I&rsquo;m encouraging you to
engage in so that you might see that you have not been placed under the
definition: sinner &hellip; ever! And you&rsquo;re not bound in any way.
And all you have to do is change your commitment now, now, now, now.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For what you think is real you WANT, and will not let it go. An error,
on the other hand, is not attractive. What you see clearly as a mistake
you WANT corrected.

Sometimes a sin can be repeated over and over, with obviously
distressing results, but without the loss of its appeal.
</div>

Anybody not had that experience, ever?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Sometimes a sin can be repeated over and over, with obviously
distressing results, but without the loss of its appeal. And suddenly,
you change its status from a sin to a mistake.
</div>

You make a decision with commitment, with realization.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Now you will not repeat it; you will merely stop and let it go, unless
the guilt REMAINS.
</div>

Now before we get into what happens if the guilt REMAINS let&rsquo;s pay
attention to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And suddenly, you change its status from a sin to a mistake. Now you
will not repeat it; you will merely stop and let it go&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; here it is right out of the book. It&rsquo;s that simple.
That&rsquo;s all there is to it. That&rsquo;s a very simple definition
of the two-step or the practice of the holy instant. And the reason you
can do that is because the divorce and the commitment to being on your
own is occurring now, now, now, now, now,  now, today, today, here, here, now, now,
nowhere else. It&rsquo;s happening right where you can decide to do
something different [snaps fingers] with just a simple choice,
now, now, now.

So, don&rsquo;t labor under the idea that this is complicated or hard to
do. It isn&rsquo;t full of process, it&rsquo;s full of simplicity.

So as we learn this about sin and the escape from sin, you can be happy
that we&rsquo;ve been discussing it and that you have been considering
it, because it&rsquo;s easier to see how easy it is. As a result, you
might risk the chance that it really is that easy and drop it, let it
go, now, now, now, now, now&hellip; please.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Now you will not repeat it; you will merely stop and let it go, unless
the guilt REMAINS.
</div>

You see? You can change the behavior and be a good boy or a good girl,
but if the guilt remains you&rsquo;re not free. And you&rsquo;re not
experiencing the Father&rsquo;s Perspective, which it is your Birthright
to be experiencing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For then you will but change the FORM of sin, granting that it was an
error, but keeping it uncorrectable. This is not really a change in your
perception, for it is SIN that calls for punishment, not error.
</div>

If you had seen it as a mistake, if you had seen it as error, you would
not experience within yourself a call for punishment. It would simply be
gone because it isn&rsquo;t present in the mindset, I&rsquo;m going to
say, of &ldquo;an error to be corrected.&rdquo; You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit CANNOT punish sin.
</div>

Why? Oh-h, the subject of this section is: The Unreality Of Sin. If
it&rsquo;s unreal the Holy Spirit cannot punish it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Mistakes He recognizes, and would correct them all as God entrusted Him
to do. But sin He knows not, nor can He recognize mistakes which cannot
be corrected.
</div>

You see? Mistakes which cannot be corrected constitute an experience of
being held in bondage to uncorrected mistakes which does constitute
suffering, which means punishment is being enacted, which means you must
have actually accomplished something impossible, when you
didn&rsquo;t&mdash;when you haven&rsquo;t.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit CANNOT punish sin. Mistakes He recognizes, and would
correct them all as God entrusted Him to do. But sin He knows not, nor
can He recognize mistakes which cannot be corrected. For a mistake which
cannot be corrected is meaningless to Him.
</div>

It&rsquo;s meaningless because there is no such thing. And so he&rsquo;s
not fooled and he doesn&rsquo;t labor under a misunderstanding that
could even develop into a &ldquo;fact&rdquo; which could be believed and
committed to. Dangerous territory!

It&rsquo;s simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Mistakes are FOR correction, and they call for nothing else.
</div>

They don&rsquo;t even call for a three hour lecture to set you straight.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Mistakes are FOR correction&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; letting go of, dropping &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and they call for nothing else. What calls for punishment must
call for nothing.
</div>

Why? Because what calls for punishment could only be sin and sin
doesn&rsquo;t exist. Sin is unreal. Sin is something that cannot happen
and has not ever happened. And so what calls for punishment, must call
for nothing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every mistake MUST be a call for love.
</div>

What does that mean? It means that every mistake that is brought to your
attention is a call for you not to abandon your union with your Father
and your devotion to that which is nothing more than your right Mind,
the Holy Spirit and the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s Perspective, which is the
Father&rsquo;s Perspective held in trust for you while you play with sin
and fear and guilt.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What, then, is sin? What could it be but a mistake you would keep
hidden; a call for help that you would keep unheard and thus unanswered?
In time, the Holy Spirit clearly sees the Son of God can make mistakes.
On this you share His vision. Yet you do not share His recognition of
the difference between time and eternity.
</div>

Again: 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In time, the Holy Spirit clearly sees the Son of God can make mistakes.
</div>

Oh, mistakes &hellip; those are the correctible things. Those are the
easy things, because no one wants to be experiencing error. No one wants
to be experiencing mistakes.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; His recognition &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s recognition &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; of the difference between time and eternity.
</div>

I&rsquo;m sorry:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
On this you share His vision. Yet you do not share His recognition of
the difference between time and eternity. And when correction is
completed, time IS eternity.
</div>

Now this is important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And when correction is completed, time IS eternity.
</div>

It&rsquo;s like when the correction of your misperception occurs, the
material world and universe IS the Kingdom of Heaven. You see? Time IS
eternity.

Everything that caused eternity, which is the context of the Kingdom of
Heaven, suffuses itself into your limited experience of time in a
physical world and universe, transforming your experience of it as your
ignorance falls away from your vision and everything becomes crystal
clear in its actuality.

And so, you find that time, what you had called time&hellip; what shall
we say? Um, the duration, the eternity of Creation, replaces time.
That&rsquo;s the point. That&rsquo;s what this little decision
now, now, now, now, now means. That&rsquo;s what it promises. That&rsquo;s
the reason the Course educates about it. That&rsquo;s the reason
I&rsquo;m taking time to elaborate on it, so that the simplicity of it
can register with you. And the awfulness of sin that&rsquo;s part and
parcel of the sinner that you are, born into sin as you were, poor souls
that you are. You see? It&rsquo;s time to Wake up from this insanity!

It&rsquo;s time to break your independence from your Father so that you
might step forth with the garments of sin falling off your back onto the
ground never to be seen again, because everyone who said it was your
true nature was wrong. And it&rsquo;s wrong for you to believe it. And
it&rsquo;s wrong for you not to challenge it by simply practicing a new
decision, now, now, now, now, now, here, this moment, because the opposite is
being brought into play now, now,  now, now, here in this moment. And its
effect is only as strong as the commitment to your denial of the Kingdom
of Heaven and your holiness is in this moment now, now, now, now. Do you
get it?

I love you all. Enjoy this expanded understanding of sin and its
nothingness and of your holiness and the ease with which you can
experience it again.

I look forward to being with you all next time.

[^1]: T19.3 The Unreality of Sin
[^2]: Romans 6:23
[^3]: Jason and the Argonauts Greek Mythology

