---
title: Aug 27, 2012
ref: "Discussion"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Sin and everything associated with it is utterly sneaky, dishonest,
unfair, misleading by nature because that&rsquo;s the only way it can
get your attention and keep it.

Now as I said last week, sin is the attempt to be something in your own
right without any connection to God. This is very literal. And what it
means is very identifiable as you go throughout the day.

When you find yourself aroused to a commitment, I&rsquo;m going to say,
to excellence for the sake of excellence and for the sake of a righteous
gift, you have taken the bait that secures your addiction further and
entirely distracts you from what will lead to your success.

Now you will usually discover, when you have this unreasonable
commitment in play, when you find yourself irritated because something
is standing in the way of what you are planning on accomplishing,
that&rsquo;s how you find [chuckle] that your attempts to be successful
isn&rsquo;t arising out of peace, but is arising out of a sense of
emptiness in you that says, &ldquo;you do not have inherent worth, you
do not have inherent value, you are not inherently worthy of
anything.&rdquo;

Now many churches teach that you are a sinner and that you are born into
sin. But you may not be religious. And so you may have not heard that
before. But you heard in other terms. You heard it in the terms of your
being &ldquo;an organism,&rdquo; part of a development of a species that
has risen and risen and risen above others and achieved a level of
excellence that goes beyond others. And the normal or natural deduction
from that is that it is your function, it is your purpose to refine
yourself, to improve yourself further. You see?

And so that&rsquo;s the means by which you are caused to feel
dissatisfied with yourself, I&rsquo;m going to say, incomplete,
experiencing an emptiness that it&rsquo;s up to you to fill by virtue of
your practice of your will. You see?

Now since you have forgotten that you got a divorce from your Father and
are a holy Son or Daughter of God whose attempting to function
independently as an entity in his or her own right, you don&rsquo;t know
that the solution to coming back into your wholeness&mdash;into the
experience of your holiness&mdash;can only be accomplished by the
abandonment of your attempt to improve yourself, by yourself, using the
skills you think you have obtained from natural physical evolution. And
so you are not in a position to make a shift of intent and establish or
bring into play a new practice that is the opposite of trying to be a
success in your own right.

Now part of the dynamic of all of this is that you are led to the
conclusion that if you do not accomplish this success, you will indeed
be a failure with nothing to stand you in good stead as a valuable and
valid being. And so it becomes an engrained part of your psyche to
persist in the attempt to be independently successful.

Now because of this emptiness that everyone is trying to overcome by
being successful, you are led to believe that success is not assured,
that in effect, it&rsquo;s like the brass ring on a merry-go-round which
you have the opportunity to get as you circle around on the
merry-go-round. And there are many rings. They are silver in color but
every now and then there&rsquo;s a gold one and somebody else may get to
the gold ring before you. 

And so you&rsquo;re kept in a constant state of uneasy suspension. And
what does it do? [chuckle] It causes you to sit on the horse on the
merry-go-round with intensity trying to get the merry-go-round to go
faster, if you could, to get your horse to the rings before someone else
of which of course, is impossible. But nevertheless, you fill yourself
with the intensity of trying to make something happen that cannot
happen. And you are frustrated with having to wait until you come around 
to the rings so that you might, perchance, have the brass ring next.

This is hell. This is not your Birthright. This is not the way you are
to exist.

Now what&rsquo;s the answer? [laughs] The answer is to get off the horse
and get off the merry-go-round! Going for the brass ring, going for
success that isn&rsquo;t naturally yours, is an artificial goal&mdash;an
attempt to do something that existence isn&rsquo;t requiring of you,
that your very being isn&rsquo;t requiring of you.

Now let&rsquo;s say, in a lifetime you have the opportunity to go around
the merry-go-round five thousand times and at the end of the five
thousandth turn you still haven&rsquo;t got the brass ring, that is the
likelihood, and even if you do get a brass ring, it won&rsquo;t forever
be the end-all of your success. It will tarnish as the success becomes
old, familiar, not bouncing with the inspiration that it had initially.
You see? And you&rsquo;ll want to get back on the merry-go-round and go
for another brass ring.

Now if you go through the five thousand rounds and don&rsquo;t get the
brass ring and this lifetime is over, you would say you were a failure.
And in fact, avoiding failure is the whole reason you&rsquo;re on the
merry-go-round and going for the brass ring.

Oh, I know &hellip; you&rsquo;ve been taught the non-religious
terminology that says that you are here to accomplish great things,
&ldquo;that whatever you can think of you can do!&rdquo; And that is
said as an encouragement, a validation of your attempting to do what
you&rsquo;ve thought, or express the idea that you&rsquo;ve had and
bring it into manifestation. You&rsquo;ve been taught. You&rsquo;ve been
taught to avoid sin, which was just merely your emptiness, in order to
fill it with success that wasn&rsquo;t yours but you can make it yours
and it will make a permanent indelible statement about you and your
validity when the practical fact is that it won&rsquo;t. It will only be
temporary.

Is that the kind of success you want? Is that what you call success?

Now let&rsquo;s say that you fail by the four hundredth time that
you&rsquo;ve gone around. Let&rsquo;s just say that you&rsquo;ve done
everything you could do and nothing has worked out in this lifetime. And
you have failed. And everything that the word, &ldquo;failure&rdquo;
connotes about you, you are embracing. You&rsquo;re worthless. You
don&rsquo;t have what it takes. You never had what it took. You
don&rsquo;t have the guts to follow through. Oh, you&rsquo;re afraid of
success and that&rsquo;s why you&rsquo;re not bringing it into your
experience!

All of this is mean-spirited crappy destructive thinking. Suggestions
which you don&rsquo;t have to accept! It isn&rsquo;t true.

Now I have talked before about failure. And I have talked about it
positively. And I need to bring it up again &hellip; because you know
what? You&rsquo;re never going to succeed at being an independent free
agent who can by virtue of his strength and his perseverance and his
intelligence accomplish something truly meaningful and make your mark
upon the world.

These are the things that sink in when you actually fail and you suffer
from what it means about you.

Now many of you have arrived at this point of failure&mdash;abject
failure and despondency. And you have given up. And those are the key
words: You have given up!

Now first I&rsquo;m going to point out that if you arrive at that point
and you don&rsquo;t give up, you just sogg in the failure and you get
angry about it and bitter, and you won&rsquo;t let go of your
bitterness, it means you haven&rsquo;t let go of the belief, the
confidence that if you had what it took you could do it and therefore,
life is unfair and it&rsquo;s against you. You see? But the intent to
follow through, the wish to follow through is still there. And so you
haven&rsquo;t given up. And when you haven&rsquo;t given up you suffer.
You continue to suffer the emptiness that you were trying to escape by
becoming something at your own hand.

And so I&rsquo;ll say, you&rsquo;ve missed the point. You&rsquo;ve
missed the gift inherent in the failure because as I started to say,
many of you have failed and you have given up. You have abandoned the
wish to succeed. You have abandoned all of the supporting concepts that
led you to believe that you could accomplish the goal. And you&rsquo;ve
let yourself be in the void without anger, frustration, bitterness, and
all of the other things that block you from your experience of
fulfillment.

And &ldquo;God Moved&rdquo; you would say. &ldquo;God Moved in my
life.&rdquo; Or one might say, &ldquo;The Universe was on my side. I had
discovered there&rsquo;s something innately beautiful about Being
&hellip; about life. There is something I am aware of about life that I
was never aware of before. And that is, that it is self-fulfilling
&hellip; self-fulfilling because when I failed and I gave up, my
situation turned around. And I became successful, but not the way I had
tried to in the past. I became successful because I was blessed when I
was a failure.&rdquo;

The Blessing is called &ldquo;Grace.&rdquo; When you fail at your
attempt to be an independent agent&mdash;an independent
success&mdash;and you give up, you let yourself be a failure without
fussing about it and you allow yourself to be in the Void in your peace,
Grace registers with you.

Now when you got the divorce from your Father, the event was called,
&ldquo;The Fall from Grace&rdquo;[^1] wasn&rsquo;t it. The Fall from Grace.
What caused the Fall from Grace? not that Grace was not extended to you,
but you got a divorce from the Source of Grace and you said &ldquo;I
want to exist and operate and function independent of Grace because of
course, if I let Grace bless me, I won&rsquo;t be able to take credit
for it and I will not be able to prove that I am a real presence&mdash;a
real entity in my own right. So the last thing I want is the experience
of Grace.&rdquo;

So what do you do?

If you want to experience success, which I&rsquo;m going to define as
fulfillment&mdash;the experience of wholeness that is present and abides
in you as You when you&rsquo;re not being self-assertive&mdash;how do
you access that?

You access it by giving up. And the thing is you don&rsquo;t have to
wait until the end of a lifetime to give up. And you don&rsquo;t even
have to wait for a crisis to occur to prove to you your incapacity to be
in charge so that you might [snaps fingers] get the idea and go ahead
and fail and give up the attempt to do otherwise. You see?

You can do this at any time. It is, in a way, harder because it requires
more self-discipline. It requires more self-discipline when a crisis
isn&rsquo;t providing the discipline. You see?

But you don&rsquo;t have to wait for the crisis of failure to bring
discipline into play and do the two-step. Fail now. When you find
yourself irritated because something occurring in your day is taking
your attention away from what you need to attend to in order to become
successful, when you feel that tension, you know that you are engaged in
a process of failure. Why? Because you haven&rsquo;t given up the
independent attempt to become successful and fulfill what you believe is
your talent or your gift or your reason for being here. You see?

If there is something that can come up in your day that can irritate you
because it&rsquo;s standing in the way of your doing what you want or
need to do, you may know that you are engaged in &hellip; what?
Willfulness. You are engaged in that which blocks the experience of
fulfillment, which will certainly be identifiable as success, but not
personal success. Rather it&rsquo;s the success that blesses you and
everyone around you, because you chose to fit in with the Movement of
fulfillment rather than creating it all by yourself. And that&rsquo;s
the difference.

Failure does not mean that you will never have your good. The value and
meaning of failure is actually you abandoning your personal private
intent, which as I said to someone the other day, blocks you from the
inspiration that illuminates and uncovers what works.

It&rsquo;s simple. It&rsquo;s very practical. But as I said,
you&rsquo;re conditioned religiously or otherwise to opt for excellence,
but excellence at your own hand, excellence that you are supposedly
capable of achieving because if you can think it, you can do it! You
see?

Even at Disneyland the youngsters are imbued with the idea of
imagineering. You see? Imagineering! Being consciously creative and
bringing forth excellence. But you know what? If you stop and think
about it, if you are willing to look honestly, I will say, at the world
scene, you will find that those individuals who made contributions that
were truly life changing, truly meaningful and beneficial to all, they
didn&rsquo;t, and they will tell you this, they didn&rsquo;t figure it
out for themselves&mdash;it dawned on them.

Now if you want to be successful, you&rsquo;ve got to be in that mental
frame of mind where dawning can occur. And if you&rsquo;re not,
you&rsquo;re on a wild goose chase, which sooner or later will lead you
to the point where you have failed at what you thought you knew you were
supposed to be and do and give up, so that you&rsquo;re in that Void
with nothing but attentiveness, so that meaningful fulfillment of your
Being and fulfillment in the world and universe, or I&rsquo;m going to
say the Kingdom of Heaven, can dawn on you and you can flow with It and
give expression to It, and have without strings and without the
potential for loss, the very things that you wanted to go for on your
own, independently.

This is very important to understand.

Now there&rsquo;s another thing: I mentioned last week, &ldquo;the wages
of sin is death,&rdquo; the result of attempting to accomplish something
and become something in your own right without God being in the picture
introduces sin, disease and death into your experience. The divorce from
your Father, the separation from your Father brings not only fear and
guilt, but sin, sickness and death into the picture.

So, when I said last week, as the Course expressed it, sin doesn&rsquo;t
exist and punishment of sin is what seems to cause it to exist or makes
it easy for you to believe that it exists as something actual, it can be
very easy for the ego to suggest to you that you have just heard from a
holy book or a holy teacher that sin does not exist and punishment
cannot secure it and that if sin does not exist punishment is
unnecessary. And one must be very careful, because sin may not exist as
an actuality but it seems to exist as a belief that you&rsquo;re
validating. And that is a mistake. And just because sin isn&rsquo;t real
and therefore, there&rsquo;s nothing to punish, it doesn&rsquo;t mean
that the mistake doesn&rsquo;t need to be corrected.

As it was pointed out last time, mistakes are there to be corrected,
mistakes are there for correction. Sin can&rsquo;t be corrected, but sin
is a mistake and the mistake can be corrected, therefore, one must get
busy correcting the mistake!

Now, sin may not be real, your attempt to determine what everything is
without sharing the Father&rsquo;s Perspective not only causes the
Kingdom of Heaven to begin to appear to be a physical world and universe
that started with a &ldquo;big bang&rdquo; but it&rsquo;s also a world
and universe in which sin, disease and death occur. And everyone who has
gone to a funeral recently didn&rsquo;t have a good time. And the fact
that a funeral was there to go to, means that something wasn&rsquo;t
corrected! Because for life, truth and love, the constituting nature of
the Kingdom of Heaven to be experienced as sin, sickness and death,
pain, suffering and so on, that isn&rsquo;t anything to be complacent
about.

That&rsquo;s nothing to say that, &ldquo;Well, sin isn&rsquo;t real and
therefore there is no punishment &hellip; Hell, maybe there isn&rsquo;t
punishment for sins.&rdquo; But there is suffering from the
misunderstanding of what you&rsquo;re experiencing. You are experiencing
the Kingdom of Heaven and you are a Son or Daughter of God experiencing
It. Anything else that you are seeing or believing is a mistake.
It&rsquo;s a misperception, and the misperception needs to be corrected.

And when the misperception is corrected, when you engage in the
two-step, when you refer to the Father to find out what the truth is and
then defer to the Father as to what the truth is you will find a
physical world and universe transforming in front of your eyes, as the
scales fall from your eyes, as the misperceptions fall away from your
vision, and you will see the Kingdom of Heaven. And there will be no
funeral you went to last week. And there will never be a funeral to go
to again. You see?

You must be careful, because the ego would have you &ldquo;learn&rdquo;
that sin is unreal and therefore, there can be no real punishment for
it, that sin and punishment work together to apparently establish the
reality of something that doesn&rsquo;t exist. And you need escape from
it.

And so you do need to be diligent. But why not be? Why not go through
your day paying attention so that when you feel that something is
getting in your way, getting in the way of something important that has
to do with the establishment of your credibility, you can say,
&ldquo;Whoa,&rdquo; you see the red flag going up and you say,
&ldquo;Uh-uh, I&rsquo;m going to purposely willingly fail at this right
now, because whatever excellence might come through me, will only come
through me when I become silent and curious and attentive where
inspiration dawns.&rdquo;

And you can do that all day long. And unless you want to wait for a
crisis to come along to be the discipline you need to actually do that,
you can do it voluntarily without the stress of the crisis even though
you will have to engage in the labor of conscious self-discipline so
that you say, &ldquo;No! I refuse to take another step in the direction
of accomplishing something all by myself, with an addiction promoting
it, that doesn&rsquo;t actually allow me to experience the inspiration
necessary to the fulfillment I know it&rsquo;s my Birthright to be
experiencing, in which I know is present to be experienced. So I&rsquo;m
going to stop doing what blocks it, even though what I&rsquo;m stopping
is what I thought was going to create it. Very important!

Now I know this makes sense in a way it&rsquo;s utterly uncomplicated.
But I&rsquo;ve got to come back to this: You&rsquo;ve been taught to
value your capacity to be an independent creator through the use of your
mind, which most of you think is somewhere in your skull. And so to
abandon the very things that you have been taught will, through your
careful practice of them, secure your success and even your
wholeness&mdash;completeness, when you learn and you are willing to
accept the fact that it won&rsquo;t and it hasn&rsquo;t, the light can
dawn in you that inspires you to let go, that inspires you to listen
more than speak, to be receptive rather than assertive.

Right now Paul is being receptive and he is engaged in activity. And
although you cannot see it tonight his hands are moving, his body is
moving and as you know his lips are moving. But what&rsquo;s happening
is not a calculated action meant to impress anyone with Paul&rsquo;s
personal capacity, because Paul isn&rsquo;t on his mind, being in the
Movement is. And when one is being in the Movement, one&rsquo;s being is
meaningful, but it isn&rsquo;t capable of an egotistical
self-appreciation.

If you want meaningful fulfillment, yield to it, rather than trying to
create it. And for all practical purposes be willing to yield to it
right in the arena where you have been attempting to create it yourself.
You say, &ldquo;What is the truth here? Aside from the way I&rsquo;ve
been looking at it, what is the truth here? Is this needed or not? Is
that needed or not? Is this appropriate or not?&rdquo;

Big question: &ldquo;How does this fit into a larger picture? How does
this fit into the context of the Kingdom of Heaven and the blessing of
everything in It?&rdquo;

Because every single thing in the Kingdom of Heaven blesses every single
other thing in the Kingdom of Heaven. You see?

So I&rsquo;m encouraging you tonight to not be afraid to fail, and in
fact to invite failure, to engage in it so that you can be in that place
where the dawning of inspiration can occur because you&rsquo;re not
introducing any static where it will appear. You see? But at the same time,
let&rsquo;s not be so impractical about the nonexistence of sin and
therefore, the fact that punishment is meaningless. Let&rsquo;s not use
that as a means of avoiding the correction that is manifesting as you in
a lifetime with birth and a death and sin, disease and death &hellip;
yes? Let&rsquo;s get down to the business of having the correction.

How do you do that? You&rsquo;ve got to do the two-step. You&rsquo;ve
got to shut up, which means silence your will, silence your intensity,
silence the intent you have arrived at through your own thinking so that
you might listen and hear what it is in you specifically that needs to
be abandoned. &ldquo;What is the belief? What is the intent behind the
thought that&rsquo;s governing me?&rdquo; You see? Do it!

It&rsquo;s the way out of sin, disease and death. It&rsquo;s the means
of Awakening. It will take diligence. It will be laborious whether
crisis is the discipline needed or that you&rsquo;ve waited for, or
whether it&rsquo;s the willing abandonment of your attempt to do it all
by yourself, whatever it might be. It&rsquo;s going to take effort. But
it&rsquo;s going to remove the futility that you&rsquo;ve been
experiencing. And I mean it! It will remove the futility of failing but
not giving up, and therefore not having.

Again&hellip; simplicity. I love you all. And I look forward to being
with you next time.

[^1]: Concept described in Genesis, Chapter 3

