---
title: Sep 23, 2012
ref: "T19.3 The Unreality of Sin"
alink: "/acim/text/19/chap1903/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Before we continue, I want to share something: In the last few weeks
I&rsquo;ve been rather pushy regarding the practice of the holy
instant&mdash;the practice of the two-step. And in some ways it might
seem that I&rsquo;m calling for everyone to engage in a formidable
endeavor that might be impossible, or if you succeed once it might be
impossible to have it happen again.

And I need to share with everyone something that I shared with Paul
early on in our relationship shortly after we had had our first
conversations. I pointed out to him&mdash;because even after the first
conversation, it was sometimes difficult for him to engage again and
have the experience&mdash;I explained to him that whenever he or anyone
reaches out to their Guide or reaches out to the Holy Spirit or reaches
out to the Father, there is always a response. One should never have the
feeling that they are engaging in this activity all by themselves,
overcoming something deeply engrained in them that it&rsquo;s almost
impossible to get past.

And it&rsquo;s not true. The Holy Spirit and your Guide and indeed the
Father, always have Their Eyes on you&mdash;always hold you in Their
attention.

I&rsquo;ve mentioned before that everyone&rsquo;s in the middle of the
Kingdom of Heaven, but they&rsquo;re not seeing It because their eyes
are all squinched up and they&rsquo;re saying, &ldquo;I cannot see the
perfection.&rdquo; And in a way it&rsquo;s like all of you are sleeping
on a grassy knoll &hellip; and I&rsquo;ve shared this before.

And We watch. We are attentive for the first stirrings&mdash;for the
first beginnings of your bringing your attention beyond the limits of
the sleeping dream. And the moment any of you become restive or
minimally attentive, we respond to help facilitate further Awakening.

You should always feel, or feel into the feeling of being attended to,
of being paid attention to &hellip; of being embraced in an ever-present
eternal Love which stands in support of your transforming consciousness.

You are Loved. And the minute any of you abandon your preoccupation with
your dilemmas and reach beyond your present sense of things, you are
responded to. Know this! So that as you engage in practicing the
two-step and the holy instant, you might know, even though it&rsquo;s an
intellectual knowing, that at the same time your Guide, the Holy Spirit,
the Father, is intent on meeting you from the other side of whatever
blocks the communication. Your attempt is never a solo attempt. Know
this! Embrace it as a fact so that you might, when you reach out, Know
that Something &hellip; Someone is reaching out to you with an Eternal
Love devoted to you and your Waking up.

It&rsquo;s important to know this.

Now I share this because as we go into the book tonight, you&rsquo;ll
see that it says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the holy instant, you will see the smile of Heaven shining on BOTH of
you &hellip;[^1]
</div>

&hellip; you and the one that you&rsquo;re in a holy relationship with.
You and the one you have decided to use as the reason for your
abandoning your definitions of him or her. You&rsquo;re abandoning his
or her definitions of himself or herself. Reaching beyond the imaginary
self that you have thought you were and you have thought they were with
the intent of gathering your information about yourself and your Brother
from a Source other than your puny little mind.

Now when you do that, and when you have the experience of the influx of
inspiration, where you are seeing and experiencing the truth about your
Brother or Sister, you feel the smile of Heaven. There&rsquo;s no other
words for it.

Now very early on, shortly before Paul&rsquo;s first conversation with
me, he had an experience that can best be called,
&ldquo;illumination.&rdquo; He was at a friend&rsquo;s house, the friend
was rather wealthy and so the place she lived was very nice. And there
was on the walls in the living room, beautiful flocked wallpaper. And
all the appointments in the room were equally beautiful. And suddenly,
it is as though all of the definitions he had embraced melted. Nothing
happened to the room or anything in it. But his way of perceiving it
changed.

Suddenly, he became aware that the walls and the wallpaper and
everything else in the room was alive, in a state of, you might say,
stationary flux because it was living but it was actively being the
flocked wallpaper or actively being the furniture or actively being the
space between him and the wallpaper or the furniture &hellip; that it
was all living and the substance of it was Love. The substance of the
wallpaper and the flocking and the design and everything else was Love.
And everything was loving him. He was having a conscious experience of
substance as Spirit, instead of matter.

Now I share this because you&rsquo;re likely to think when you say,
&ldquo;Father what is the truth here?&rdquo; or &ldquo;Holy Spirit, what
is the truth here?&rdquo; that you are going to get an intellectual
explanation of it rather than an experience of it. And to help you
broaden the context in which you listen for the answer to &ldquo;what is
the truth here?&rdquo; I want you to consider that the answer will be an
experience of Meaning, not an explanation.

If before Paul had this experience of illumination, he had said,
&ldquo;Father, what is the truth about this flocked wallpaper?&rdquo; he
might have expected an answer that would have to do with design and what
the flocking was made out of and what developments had taken place that
allowed for such beautiful workmanship and blah…blah…blah.

But the answer to &ldquo;what is the truth about the wallpaper&rdquo;
was: It is living Love that is loving you.

Now the fact is that when Paul was having this experience, he found
himself loving the wallpaper and loving everything else. So it was a
circular give and take, you might say &hellip; a circular sharing of
love.

Don&rsquo;t look for an explanation of truth about objects. &ldquo;What
is the truth about my partner? What is the truth about this child? What
is the truth about this plant that is withering?&rdquo; You see?

The truth is the Meaning &hellip; the Meaning.

If you look for an explanation you&rsquo;re likely to miss the answer as
to what the truth is. You see? So don&rsquo;t be so sure that you know
what the form of truth about anything will be. Except that I will tell
you that it will always involve the experience of Meaning. Little did
Paul know that the Meaning of the wallpaper or the Meaning of everything
in the room was not only Love, but Love loving him, meaning that
everything was conscious of him &hellip; not just an inanimate material
substance, but an active exchange of living Love.

Who would&rsquo;ve thunk &hellip; you see? Who would have thought that
that might be the answer or the kind of answer one might get when one
asks &ldquo;What is the truth here?&rdquo; You see?

The Father expresses Himself as infinite Meaning. And what you want is
not an understanding of the meaning of something, like a definition, but
you want the experience of the Meaning which you will have to add words
to afterwards. You see? Because you&rsquo;ve had the experience of the
Meaning, you&rsquo;ve had the experience of the truth. And in having the
experience of the truth, you understand the wallpaper and you understand
yourself. And you understand that the wallpaper and you are a Movement
of Love expressed and acknowledging&mdash;the giving and the receiving.
It is a wholeness and indeed, one could call it the smile of Heaven. So
keep this in mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the holy instant, you will see the smile &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you will experience, feel the Meaning of &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the smile of Heaven shining on BOTH of you. And you will shine
upon each other, in glad acknowledgment of the grace that has been given
you.
</div>

So first of all, when you&rsquo;re reaching out by means of the holy
instant, you&rsquo;re not reaching out by yourself &hellip; at the same
time, the Holy Spirit or your Guide is reaching out to you to, for lack
of better words, complete the connection. It&rsquo;s a mutual endeavor.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For sin will not prevail against a union Heaven has smiled upon.
</div>

I promise you, in the experience of the smile of Heaven, in the
experience of the substance of everything being Love, in the experience
of it being the direct expression of God, there simply is no room for
sin&mdash;for a desire to imagine what things really are all by yourself
and make it up and make it be true&mdash;it simply is not there. The
contest is over while it&rsquo;s happening. The need to pull yourself up
by your own bootstraps is over because you&rsquo;re experiencing the
Meaning. And again, I point this out, because if you are looking for an
explanation, you will miss the Meaning.

If you don&rsquo;t miss the Meaning, you won&rsquo;t need an explanation
and it will be left to you afterwards to find a way to explain it to
someone else. You see how non-essential the explanation is? You want the
experience that requires a new explanation or perhaps, none at all
because your very Being communicates the Meaning to whomever you are
with.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For sin will not prevail against a union Heaven has smiled upon. Your
perception was healed in the holy instant Heaven gave you.
</div>

Paul&rsquo;s perception of the wallpaper was healed in the holy instant
Heaven gave him.

There was another realization that occurred while Paul was having this
experience. And that was, that if the walls of that beautiful home had
been papered with tarpaper, it would have been as lovely. It would have
been as impactful because the substance of it would have been Love
loving him. And let&rsquo;s clarify it further: It&rsquo;s divine Love
loving him and loving everything else.

And so it doesn&rsquo;t matter what the material is or what the design
might be because the very substance of everything is divine Love. And so
the definition of beauty changes. There&rsquo;s nothing quite so
exquisite as tarpaper when it is seen through the eyes of Love and
it&rsquo;s substance as Love is recognized.

And so, flocked paper is not preferable to tarpaper. Either one can be
used for any purpose and the fullness of the Gift of God will be present
there because you won&rsquo;t be seeing definitions. You will be seeing
the Meaning of the impulse of Love expressed&mdash;the Presence of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forget what you have seen&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; when you have this experience &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forget what you have seen, and raise your eyes in faith to what you NOW
can see.
</div>

Now in the rush of the first moments of the experience there&rsquo;s no
alternative you&rsquo;re interested in. But as time seems to pass, let
us say, over the next twenty-four hours, the Vision you might say, fades
because circumstances seen through habit seem to call upon you to
respond in the old way. But it says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forget what you have seen, and raise your eyes in faith to what you NOW
can see. The barriers to Heaven will disappear before your holy sight,
for you who were sightless &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you, who looked at flocked wallpaper and just saw flocked
wallpaper, those of you who looked at tarpaper and just saw
tarpaper&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; have been given vision, and you can see.
</div>

This is important. Because this is all part and parcel of the practice
of the holy instant and the fruits of the holy instant. Just be with
that for a moment &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Look not for what has been removed, but for the glory that has been
restored for you to see.
</div>

Glory that had been there all along has been restored for you to see by
virtue of your vision being restored. And your vision has been restored
because you&rsquo;ve been willing to withdraw the definitions you have
created and you have been willing to do that because you&rsquo;re
willing to abandon the goal of making yourself real on your own by
virtue of the definitions you create. It&rsquo;s simple. It&rsquo;s
beautiful.

The way in which to feel the unending, undying ever-present Love that
you&rsquo;re embraced by is to relax &hellip; is to become still, to
abandon your very conscious willful intent so that you might in the
peace of your Being, yield to the Movement of God so that you are moving
but you&rsquo;re not directing the move. And the Movement isn&rsquo;t
being engaged in to gain status, prestige, wealth, or anything else at
your own hand.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Look upon your Redeemer&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; Look upon your Redeemer &hellip; well your Redeemer is the
Truth, isn&rsquo;t it. Look upon the truth that is revealed. But also
look upon the Holy Spirit, which is your Redeemer&mdash;the Holy Spirit
truly being nothing more than your right Mind, your Sanity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Look upon your Redeemer, and behold what He would show you in each
other&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; be willing to look at the partner, be willing to look at the
wallpaper, be willing to look at the furnishings and be willing to see
what&rsquo;s shown to you by virtue of the holy instant occurring. You
see? The holy instant, which is the action of the Holy Spirit and you in
your attentiveness, Gifts you with what you aren&rsquo;t expecting! And
you don&rsquo;t have to make up the gift. You don&rsquo;t have to have
to figure out what the gift is. Why? Because the intent to love you into
your Sanity, is ever-present and working with you and loving you for the
purpose of renewing and transforming your mind.

It&rsquo;s not something you&rsquo;re doing all by yourself. And
it&rsquo;s not something you should try to do all by yourself. You
certainly have to participate. But you don&rsquo;t have to do it all by
yourself, period.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Look upon your Redeemer, and behold what He would show you in each
other, and let not sin arise again to blind your eyes.
</div>

What do you mean let not sin rise again? Let not the intent to see by
yourself as an independent agent, as an orphan coming to conclusions
through the use of imagination and not truth &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; let that not blind your eyes again. For sin &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that attempt &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; would keep you separate, but your Redeemer would have you look
upon each other as yourself &hellip;

&hellip; as yourself &hellip;  
</div>

Oh-h &hellip; imagine if flocked wallpaper can provide an exquisite experience of the expression of Love, what might it be if you&rsquo;re looking at your partner and
letting God&rsquo;s Meaning about your partner register with you. And
can you imagine what your partner would feel like when you have felt the
Meaning and your behavior changes, and your very presence communicates
that kind of love, that kind of innocence, that absence of
self-protection that removes all barriers from your partner&rsquo;s mind
as he or she relates to you in your new vision.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your relationship is now a temple of healing; a place where all the
weary ones can come and find rest. Here is the rest that waits for all,
after the journey. And it is brought nearer to all by your relationship.
</div>

&hellip; meaning your new relationship, the one in which your partner
and the wallpaper and the tarpaper are all the divine presence of Love
loving and revealing to you within you that same Love shared with the
partner, the wallpaper, the tarpaper, et cetera&mdash;a unity there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As this peace extends from deep inside yourselves to embrace all the
Sonship and give it rest, it will encounter many obstacles.
</div>

Ah, yet, you knew there was going to be a hook somewhere there,
didn&rsquo;t you? Yeah.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As this peace extends from deep inside yourselves to embrace all the
Sonship and give it rest, it will encounter many obstacles.
</div>

Yeah, the work is not over yet! Well, don&rsquo;t be so quick to jump to
conclusions. It&rsquo;s an easy way to say&mdash;without investigating
the experience&mdash;that it&rsquo;s not really worth trying. It&rsquo;s
going to be too much work. It&rsquo;s not natural to you. Well,
it&rsquo;s the most natural thing to you in the universe, it&rsquo;s the
most natural thing to you in the Mind of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As this peace extends from deep inside yourselves to embrace all the
Sonship and give it rest, it will encounter many obstacles. Some of them
you will try to impose.
</div>

You see? At times it will seem easy to slip back into your habitual
definitions and your habitual responses, even though it&rsquo;s
impossible for you to forget what the wallpaper really is &hellip; you
see? &hellip; or the tarpaper, or the furniture.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Others will seem to arise from elsewhere;
</div>

&hellip; other obstacles &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; from your brothers, and from various aspects of the world
outside. Yet &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; here it is &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; peace will gently cover them, extending past completely
unhindered.
</div>

You see? The new vision will allow you to relate to everything other
than the flocked wallpaper or the tarpaper or the furniture in that
particular room. It will extend past that to everything without the
hindrance that you might expect. Which I promise you will be a relief
and will inspire you to persist in asking to know what the truth is
here, what the truth is there, being opened to the experience of its
divine Meaning.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The extension of the Holy Spirit's purpose from your relationship to
others, to bring them gently in, will quietly extend to every aspect of
your lives, surrounding both of you with glowing happiness and the calm
awareness of complete protection.
</div>

This is part of the Gift. This is part of the smile of Heaven.
It&rsquo;s unavoidable. It&rsquo;s simply there. It&rsquo;s provided. It
is the fruits of the holy instant.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And you will carry its message of love and safety and freedom to
everyone who draws nigh unto your temple, where healing waits for him.

&hellip; draws nigh unto your temple&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; wow, your temple is your enlivened and unfragmented recognition
of Love, acknowledgement of It and return of It through your
participation, which you will discover your very Being has always been
engaged in even though you saw yourselves as separate, independent and
unconnected. The truth of you has never stopped. But you&rsquo;ve missed
it. And the truth of everything as the evidence of the Kingdom of Heaven
has never stopped. And the constant infinite Love that it is embracing
all of Creation in, hasn&rsquo;t stopped, even though you&rsquo;ve
missed it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will not wait to give him this&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; this healing. You will not wait to recognize the Meaning in
him, because this becomes, you might say, your new purpose or your new
interest. It will be more interesting to you to learn the truth, to
experience the Meaning of everything than it had been for you to engage
in trying to become something in your own right, all by yourself, as
something which had no Source other than a physical action called
&ldquo;a Big Bang,&rdquo; and &ldquo;evolution.&rdquo;

So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will not wait to give him this&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; healing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for you will call to him and he will answer you, recognizing in
your call the Call of God.
</div>

Now I&rsquo;ll tell you something: that doesn&rsquo;t mean you&rsquo;re
going to be talking about God. It doesn&rsquo;t mean that you&rsquo;ll
start teaching religion or become a minister of ideas, of thoughts, of
definitions, of words. But your very being will be the undeniable
communication of Love, which others will recognize and find attractive,
unless they are still absolutely intent upon using their drug of choice
and not giving up their fruitless goal quite yet. But even at that,
you&rsquo;ll be able to see that they&rsquo;re not just tarpaper like
they think they are. They&rsquo;re tarpaper, the living Love of God,
beautiful because of the nature of Love, not the apparent physical
substance of which it&rsquo;s made. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And you will draw him in and give him rest, as it was given you.
</div>

You will draw him in as I draw you in. And you will give him rest as I
give you rest. And he will take it or not take it as it is given, just
as you take it or not take it as it is given. But you will not be
discouraged because you can&rsquo;t forget that he&rsquo;s not just
tarpaper, or you can&rsquo;t forget that she&rsquo;s not just flocked
wallpaper, but that both are the Presence of God, full of Meaning,
divine Meaning, the smile of Heaven.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All this will you do.
</div>

&hellip; just as I&rsquo;m doing it with you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet the peace which already lies deeply within must first expand, and
flow across the obstacles you placed before it.
</div>

Transformation &hellip; allowance of transformation, the withholding of
resentment because you&rsquo;re having to let go of what you thought was
valuable, the withdrawal of anger because what you thought was true
isn&rsquo;t true, wasn&rsquo;t true. And you will say you were misled.
It&rsquo;s not fair &hellip; until you give up and feel the unction of
Love that you&rsquo;re being embraced by, so that it might illuminate in
you the Love that you are giving back because there is nothing else to
share in light of the real Meaning of everything.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This will you do, for nothing undertaken with the Holy Spirit remains
unfinished.
</div>

You see? Ah-h, the experience of the holy instant. The smile of Heaven
may waver because your attention shifts. But the gift of the Holy Spirit
changes you forever and does not allow you to go back to the level of
ignorance that you had achieved before. And the truth that has dawned on
you, the experience of the meaning of Creation that you have had, will 
simply widen the road into a highway that it will be impossible for you 
to resist because you will want to experience the whole thing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can indeed be sure of nothing you see outside you, but of this you
CAN be sure: The Holy Spirit asks that you offer Him a resting-place
where you will rest in Him.
</div>

It&rsquo;s like, let the wallpaper be the Love that it is, so that you
can be the Love that you Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He answered you, and entered your relationship.
</div>

When you did the two-step, when you did the two-step for the specific
purpose of wanting to know the truth about your Brother, your Sister,
adjoining in which you have committed to not introducing any made-up
definitions from your puny imagination.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you not now return His graciousness, and enter into a relationship
with Him?
</div>

The Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing but your right Mind, which
you hadn&rsquo;t been recognizing as your own right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you not now return His graciousness, and enter into a relationship
with Him?
</div>

So that you&rsquo;re not saying, &ldquo;Oh, the Holy Spirit &hellip;
sure &hellip; the Father, the Son, the Holy Spirit &hellip; and then
there&rsquo;s me.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s not being in a relationship with
the Holy Spirit. Being in relationship with the Holy Spirit is where you
let the Holy Spirit infill you and rule out of you all
self-will&mdash;all will that doesn&rsquo;t not arise out of the act of
God, the Movement of God Being Itself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you not now return His graciousness, and enter into a relationship
with Him? For it is He Who offered your relationship the gift of
holiness&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the relationship you have with your partner, your Sister, your
Brother.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For it is He Who offered your relationship the gift of holiness, without
which it would have been forever impossible to appreciate each other.
</div>

Without that experience Paul had it would have been forever
impossible for him to Know how a wall papered with tarpaper could be as
exquisite as a wall papered with flocked wallpaper, because it&rsquo;s
the Meaning that the wall was papered with, no matter what form the
Meaning took.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The gratitude you owe to Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit, your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; He asks but that YOU receive for Him.
</div>

In other words, abandon the barrier, abandon the definitions of
difference that keep you from grasping and experiencing the Meaning of
the Oneness of you and the Holy Spirit. That&rsquo;s what it means.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And when you look with gentle graciousness upon each other, you ARE
beholding Him. For you are looking where He IS, and not apart from Him.
</div>

And I would add, that you&rsquo;re looking with Him. It is as though you
have put on the Holy Spirit like glasses and you are seeing everything
with Him.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For you are looking where He IS, and not apart from Him. You cannot see
the Holy Spirit, but you CAN see your brothers truly&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; instead of ignorantly, instead of privately through definitions
you and your Brother have made up about each other.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot see the Holy Spirit, but you CAN see your brothers truly. And
the light in them will show you all that you need to see.
</div>

The love in the wallpaper, the love in the tarpaper will show you all
that you need to see, the Meaning in each other, the Meaning in the
wallpaper, the Meaning in the tarpaper will show you all that you need
to see.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When the peace in you has been extended to encompass everyone&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which will become easier and easier as you abide in this
experience of Meaning.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the Holy Spirit's function here will be accomplished.
</div>

Meaning what? The Holy Spirit&rsquo;s function of returning you to your
right Mind will have been accomplished.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What need is there for seeing, then?
</div>

In other words, seeing definitions, seeing strings of words,
explanations, seeing concepts and beliefs&hellip; what need is there for
that then?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When God has taken the last step Himself, the Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that which is nothing more than your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will gather all your thanks and gratitude which you have
offered Him, and lay them gently before His Creator in the name of His
most holy Son &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; You. He will lay before the Father the union between you and
the Holy Spirit that has occurred. The Holy Spirit will present you to
the Father in your Sanity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And the Father will accept them in His Name.
</div>

He will own you. He will say, &ldquo;Welcome, Son! Welcome, Daughter!
Welcome, You who know who you Are, because you know who I Am.&rdquo; And
your Birthright has been restore to you&mdash;your full conscious Sanity
has been restored to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What need is there of seeing, in the presence of His gratitude?
</div>

What need is there for the concept of tarpapered shacks, when tarpaper
as Living Love is the Meaning you are filled with. You see?

So the experience of the Meaning of a tarpapered shack and a village of
tarpapered shacks could be a castle and a kingdom of most profound
&hellip; profound Meaning, holiness&mdash;all that the word,
&ldquo;opulence&rdquo; could mean.

I&rsquo;m not going to say, think about it. I&rsquo;m going to say, be
with this during this coming week and let your every request to know
what is the truth here be made with an understanding that what
you&rsquo;re looking for is the Meaning, the holy Meaning of whatever it
is you are enquiring about. And that the Meaning will be an experience,
a wordless, definitionless experience in which nothing is withheld as to
its full Meaning. Not having the words, not having the definitions, not
having the concepts will not cause you to miss one iota of the divine
Meaning of the thing that you&rsquo;ve enquired about.

And then, as I said, you&rsquo;ll have to look for the words and you
might even find that you won&rsquo;t spend too much time trying to find
the words, because you would rather experience the Meaning and be with
your Brothers and Sisters and the world from the experience of the
Meaning and let that lead you to whatever actions it leads you.

I love you. I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next
time.

[^1]: T19.3 The Unreality of Sin

