---
title: Sept 30, 2012
ref: T19.4 The Obstacles to Peace
alink: "/acim/text/19/chap1904/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well, we&rsquo;ve been talking about Meaning&mdash;the divine Meaning of
everything which is revealed in the practice of the holy instant. It is
the blessing of the holy instant.

Now suddenly we&rsquo;re talking about:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Obstacles to Peace*[^1]
</div>

Why? Well, let&rsquo;s read a little bit. The first subsection is:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Desire to Get Rid of It*
</div>

&hellip; meaning, peace.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The first obstacle that peace must flow across is your desire to get RID
of it. For it cannot extend unless you KEEP it.
</div>

Now, you have the experience of the influx of inspiration and of the
true Meaning of your relationships whether it&rsquo;s with your Brother
or the flocked wallpaper or furniture or plants, whatever. You have the
experience and then for some reason it begins to fade, or circumstances
call into play your habitual responses which arise out of your ignorance
of the revelation you&rsquo;ve just had. And you respond out of your
habit, which is that you lose your peace. And you attempt to resolve the
problem on your own without the benefit of the continued benefit of the
continued revelation&mdash;the continued inspiration that is the result
of your not abandoning the two-step or the holy instant in the face of
external demands.

Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It cannot extend &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; peace cannot extend &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; unless you KEEP it.
</div>

Meaning, unless you don&rsquo;t abandon it.

Now listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are the center from which it radiates outward, to call the others
in.
</div>

I think we&rsquo;re beginning to have disclosed your meaning which is
illuminated in the experience of the holy instant&mdash;the blessing of
the holy instant.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are the center from which it radiates outward&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; to what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to call the others in. You are its home; its tranquil
dwelling-place, from which it gently reaches out, but never leaving YOU.
</div>

Why? Because you never abandoned the holy instant. You see? And so you
KEEP it and by keeping it, it extends outward. But this is not the way
you have defined yourself &hellip; has it been. So, a new
understanding of your meaning is illuminated in the fulfillment of the
holy instant.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you would make it homeless&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; peace by abandoning it &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; how can it abide within the Son of God?
</div>

Meaning, you?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If it would spread across the whole creation, it must begin with you,
and FROM you reach to everyone who calls, and bring him rest by joining
you.
</div>

Now, sounds like you have a job, sounds like you have an
activity&mdash;a purpose.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If it would spread across the whole creation, it must begin with you,
and FROM you reach to everyone who calls, and bring him rest by joining
you.
</div>

Well, doesn&rsquo;t sound like you&rsquo;re going to have much privacy,
doesn&rsquo;t sound like you&rsquo;re going to have much rest. Sounds
like your attention is going to be full of Meaning&mdash;full of peace
extending from you, not as a nice wonderful blessing extended to
everyone, but as an actual involvement, an actual healing involvement.
You see?

Now that in itself might seem like a reason to get rid of peace. After
all, do you really want that much involvement? Even if it&rsquo;s the
fulfillment of your purpose of being? You see? So you might object to
letting there be too much peace or peace too consistently. It might be
nice to have peace and its blessing intermittently &hellip; on weekends
or late at night when there isn&rsquo;t much going on&mdash;nothing good
on TV.

Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Why would you want peace homeless?
</div>

&hellip; in other words, not to be found in you?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What do you think that it must dispossess, to dwell with you?
</div>

In other words, what&rsquo;s it going to take away from you?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What seems to be the cost you are so unwilling to pay?
</div>

Well as I&rsquo;ve just described, it could just be time. It just could
be the effort involved in involvement in connected meaningful
relationship.  It takes away your privacy. It takes away your freedom to
do whatever you want.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The little barrier of sand still stands between you. Would you reinforce
it NOW?
</div>

Meaning, after you&rsquo;ve experienced the blessing of the holy instant
and grasp the Meaning of everything&mdash;the divine Meaning of
everything as living Love expressed and expressing and inseparable from
the Love you find yourself feeling and extending toward everything else?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are not asked to let it go for yourselves alone.
</div>

&hellip; the little barrier&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Christ asks it of you for Himself.
</div>

Why? Because it fulfills my purpose to help fulfill your purpose, so
that God&rsquo;s Purpose can be uninhibitedly fulfilled.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Christ &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; would bring peace to everyone, and how can He do this EXCEPT
through you?
</div>

You see? It&rsquo;s a mutual endeavor. Not of private puny little egos
doing some grand thing, but inseparable infinite Mind expressing and
acknowledging and embracing the Will of the Father as his own.
Simple&hellip; profound &hellip; Awakening&mdash;the generator of
Atonement.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you let a little bank of sand, a wall of dust, a tiny seeming
barrier, stand between your brothers and salvation?
</div>

Well yeah, you would. Because it still, you believe, takes away too much
from you. But you know what? In the face of the experience of the
fulfillment of the holy instant that you&rsquo;ve had, your insistence
upon holding to your orphanhood is severely weakened. In fact, it has
been dealt a death blow even though it still seems to struggle to assert
itself, meaning you as an orphan are still trying to assert yourself
instead of persisting in practicing the holy instant.

You see, what you want is persistence of Vision having had the
inspiration that has caused you to experience everything as Love
expressed and expressing as absolutely divine, holy, and exquisitely
meaningful. You have the option which it behooves you to take advantage
of to stay with the Vision and that is what you are called upon to learn
by the initial experience and each successive one. It is something for
you to learn. That means, it is something meant to change you so that 
you recognize yourself anew.

Again, if it would spread across the whole creation it must begin with
you and from you reach to everyone who calls and bring him rest by
joining you.

That&rsquo;s the new meaning of you. That&rsquo;s the context in which
you need to be looking at yourself.

As we&rsquo;ve said before: You are neither behind the point of
perfection nor advancing toward it. You are at that point and must
understand yourself therefrom.

That&rsquo;s what you learn in the fulfillment of the holy instant. So
when the tendency is to abandon your peace, to respond as an orphan, you
must say, &ldquo;Absolutely not! I reject the invitation. I&rsquo;m a
holy Son of God neither behind the point of perfection nor advancing
toward it. I&rsquo;m at that point and I must understand and be from the
persistence of Vision.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you let a little bank of sand, a wall of dust, a tiny seeming
barrier, stand between your brothers and salvation? And yet, it IS this
little remnant of attack you cherish still against each other that is
the first obstacle the peace in you encounters in its going forth.
</div>

You see? &ldquo;Oh, my Brother&rsquo;s not worth the effort! My
definition of him keeps me from being willing to extend to him the act
of the holy instant. I&rsquo;m unwilling to abandon my conviction that
he&rsquo;s not holy and that he deserves my judgment and he deserves my
refusal to acknowledge what&rsquo;s true about him by engaging in the
holy instant where the truth about him and how I need to behave is
illuminated in a manner that is healing.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This little wall of hatred would still oppose the Will of God&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that has been made clear in the illumination of the fulfillment
of the holy instant.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It would still oppose the Will of God, and keep It limited.
</div>

Keep the Will of God limited? Well, that is the experience one has if
one does not continue to give it entrance into his mind. Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit's purpose rests in peace within you. Yet you are still
unwilling to let it join you wholly. You still oppose the Will of God,
just by a little. And that little is a limit you would place upon the
whole.
</div>

Now you don&rsquo;t realize that in the attempt to be independent, you
are engaged in an act that is extended to the whole&mdash;to everything
else but you. But that is what you&rsquo;re doing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You still oppose the Will of God, just by a little. And that little is a
limit you would place upon the whole. God's Will is One, not many.
</div>

That&rsquo;s important. God is omnipotent, omniscient, omnipresent. God
is One. His infinite Being which is called Creation which includes you
is One in its infiniteness.

When you claim independence, you are opposing the whole. You&rsquo;re
not just opposing whatever specific thing you might be angry or
short-tempered or bitter about, the minute you misuse your mind and
separate yourself from the infinite view that the holy instant has
provided, you have denied, objected to the whole. You have objected to
God.

Another way of putting it is, you have blinded yourself to everything
except what you want to see. You have blocked out the real Meaning of
everything except what you want to see the way you want to see it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God's Will is One, not many. It has no opposition, for there is none
beside It. What you would still contain behind your little barrier and
keep separate from each other seems mightier than the universe,
</div>

Your will is mightier than God&rsquo;s Will because when you are
exerting your will, you are refusing to be in receipt of the experience
of the Father&rsquo;s Will. Thus, you have become mightier when in fact
you have become so tiny, so minimalistic that you&rsquo;re in a state of
rejection that makes you meaningless and there&rsquo;s no way to get
away from that experience of being inconsequential and having to try to
overcome it.

The only thing that can help you escape from that is the practice of the
holy instant, the re-uniting, by means of desire to know the truth from
something other than your imagination. That&rsquo;s the practice of the
two-step and the holy instant. And when you do that, the arrogant little
you that has seemed mightier than the universe stops expressing its
arrogance. And in the absence of that arrogance, what&rsquo;s left for
you to be aware of is what is true, is what is Real, is what the Holy
Spirit reveals to you. And what the Holy Spirit reveals to you is your
Birthright and the omnipotence, omnipresence and omniscience of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you would still contain behind your little barrier and keep
separate from each other seems mightier than the universe, for it would
hold back the universe and its Creator. This little wall would hide the
purpose of Heaven, and keep it FROM Heaven.
</div>

It would make you look at wallpaper and just see wallpaper. It would
have you look at the movement and presence of living Love, loving you
and disclosing to you the nature of everything in the universe. It would
hide that from you and keep you from seeing it. What kind of blessing is
that? It would keep the experience of Heaven from Heaven by blinding you
to it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you thrust salvation away from the GIVER of salvation?
</div>

Uh-oh, here we come again for one of those reasons you might not want to
keep your peace.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For such have you become.
</div>

&hellip; the GIVER of salvation. You see, one of the things you&rsquo;re
going to find out is that you&rsquo;re going to need to become more
conscious because there&rsquo;s so much of Creation that you&rsquo;ve
been missing. And in your laziness, you&rsquo;ve kept yourself blind.

And so you are going have to become more alert. You are going to have to
be more attentive. You&rsquo;re going to actually have to be more
interested in life than you have been, embracing more by paying more
attention to it. What? With the conscious intent to have the Father
reveal to you the divine Meaning of what you&rsquo;re paying more
attention to. You see?

&ldquo;Oh, it&rsquo;s too much work! Oh God, do I really have to do
that? Isn&rsquo;t there an easier way? Can&rsquo;t I get the fullness
and just be a little bit sleepy, not have to pay full attention?&rdquo;

No you can&rsquo;t! It&rsquo;s not your purpose to be
sleepy&mdash;drowsy&mdash;uh, vague &hellip; fuzzy, uninvolved, not
noticing everything. That&rsquo;s not your function or purpose. No.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you thrust salvation away from the GIVER of salvation? For such
have you become.
</div>

You see? Now that&rsquo;s good news. It&rsquo;s just not what
you&rsquo;re used to. But the good news is also that you have the
capacity to be what you were created to be. You have the capacity to be
what God is creating you to be now &hellip; now &hellip; now.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Peace could no more depart from you than from God. Fear not this little
obstacle. It cannot contain the Will of God. Peace WILL flow across it,
and join you without hindrance.
</div>

You see? It will join you without hindrance if you will relax and not
provide hindrance yourself by choosing not to have to fulfill your
purpose because it wasn&rsquo;t what you wanted, it wasn&rsquo;t what
you expected, it&rsquo;s going to demand too much from you and most of
all, it&rsquo;s going to take away your originality, your ability to be
creative in your own right, you think. You think it&rsquo;s going to
take away originality. But you may not be God but God is all there is of
you. And when you let God be all there is of you, you are inseparable
from the Movement of Creation&mdash;infinite originality. The only thing
that you lose is the ability to claim that you are the originator of
originality intead of the Movement, the unhindered Movement of
originality.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Salvation cannot BE withheld from you. It is your PURPOSE.
</div>

You see? It&rsquo;s not just something you need. &ldquo;Oh, I need
salvation. I need to Wake up. Awakening needs to occur. I need to come
back into my right Mind.&rdquo; Well, salvation isn&rsquo;t something
for you to become. It&rsquo;s something you Are that you need to no
longer block the expression of.

You are neither behind the point of perfection, nor advancing toward it.
You are at that point and must understand or be there from.

There is a certain amount of satisfaction that one gets as an orphan,
from not being at the point of perfection and not understanding
one&rsquo;s self from there. It&rsquo;s the stimulating experience of
not knowing while continuously being faced with a demand to know and
therefore, putting you in the position of having to figure out the
answers, to figure out what the truth is and do it yourself as an orphan
because in that way you&rsquo;ll get credit for it. And you have the
pleasure of enduring the mystery until the last moment when the clarity
comes. Mystery is stimulating. Mystery is interesting.

But if you&rsquo;re already whole, if you must understand yourself and
be from the point of perfection which you can do when you let yourself
be infilled by what the truth is and its Meaning, you will never have to
figure out a thing again. And you will never exist in a mystery &hellip;
pretty dull &hellip; pretty boring &hellip; pretty uninteresting. Why?
Because you can&rsquo;t get a hit from it&mdash;no longer using your
drug of choice&mdash;there&rsquo;s no high that you recognize. And yet
the experience of real fulfillment far exceeds the high from
the drug of choice. And you must make a choice for it by choosing for
your peace and remaining with persistence of Vision &hellip; so that
what? Salvation can be successfully lived by you because it&rsquo;s your
purpose.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You CANNOT will apart from this. You have no purpose apart from &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; each other&hellip;
</div>

Now this sentence is the answer to the world&rsquo;s problems today
across your globe. Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have no purpose apart from each other&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Family. And the conscious practice of the two-step, of the
holy instant, out of appreciation for each other. And an unwillingness
to be distracted from your relationships with each other, insisting upon
relating to each other by going to the Father first by turning to the
Holy Spirit first. And practicing the holy instant so that it might be
fulfilled and so that you might continue with persistence of Vision
because you haven&rsquo;t subsequently found a reason to give your peace
away and engage in judgment toward those you are in relationship with.

Again, the answer to the problems on your globe everywhere is

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have no purpose apart from each other, nor apart from the one you
asked the Holy Spirit to share with you. The little wall&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your insistence upon your independent orphan actions.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The little wall will fall away so quietly beneath the wings of peace!
</div>

Exclamation point!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For peace will send its messengers from you to all the world.
</div>

Ah-h, isn&rsquo;t that a more hopeful and a more fulfilling destiny,
than to be caught up in petty little distinctions, and petty little
backbiting and petty little judgments against each other and finding
everyone&rsquo;s faults and uncovering them as though that&rsquo;s the
purpose of the holy instant? Except that for the most part you&rsquo;ll
satisfy those requirements without asking the Holy Spirit anything. Your
fulfillment has far more, Meaning than that.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For peace will send its messengers from you to all the world. And
barriers will fall away before their coming as easily as those which you
would interpose will be surmounted.
</div>

This is the promise. It&rsquo;s the promise because it&rsquo;s the way
things work, it&rsquo;s the way things always have worked. And all that
you&rsquo;re doing here is not growing into a greater capacity than you
ever had before or going through some karmic development of mankind.
You&rsquo;re just neglecting to engage what has blocked the truth from
you before. And in the neglect, the truth begins to light up and you
begin to see it. Inspiration occurs, holiness occurs and the smile of
Heaven is experienced. This is the way it works. Don&rsquo;t make it
more complicated than it is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To overcome the world is no more difficult than to surmount your little
wall.

&hellip; your little wall.
</div>

You look out there and you say there&rsquo;s a world out there and
it&rsquo;s full of corruption and it&rsquo;s full of dishonesty and
it&rsquo;s full of greed and it&rsquo;s full of mortals who can&rsquo;t
possibly be expected to do the amount of growing it will take in order
to Wake up. Well, what a curse that perspective is. You might say,
it&rsquo;s a curse on the world. But you know what? It&rsquo;s a curse
on you, because it causes you to not practice the holy instant and it
causes you to curse yourself with the same meanings that you are cursing
the world with. And yet that mental practice on your part is the only
thing that makes overcoming the world seem incredibly difficult, if not
impossible, because all that needs to change is your perspective
&hellip; are the decisions you have made, the conclusions you have come
to and the honoring of the greatness of your skill in coming to those
conclusions.

Again, that&rsquo;s what Atonement costs you. That&rsquo;s what the
practice of peace and persistence of Vision costs you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To overcome the world is no more difficult than to surmount your little
wall.
</div>

Because your little wall is the only thing that has to be surmounted.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For in the miracle of your relationship, without this barrier, is EVERY
miracle contained. There is no order of difficulty in miracles, for they
are all the SAME.
</div>

Listen:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Each is a gentle winning over from the appeal of guilt to the appeal of
love.
</div>

So guilt is one of those stimulating, mind-occupying, attention getting
things that you all enjoy, because it prods you into coming to better
conclusions and manipulating the world and your Brothers and Sisters so
as to make things better and reduce the guilt. You love guilt as much as
you love the mystery until you practice the holy instant, experience its
fulfillment and insist upon persisting in the Vision because
that&rsquo;s what allows you to fulfill your purpose of salvation and
bless the universe.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How can this FAIL to be accomplished, wherever it is undertaken? Guilt
can raise no real barriers against it.
</div>

It doesn&rsquo;t. It, at the most, just causes you to delay abandoning
it, to delay yielding to the Father&rsquo;s Will, to delay experiencing
your whole Mind. It just delays it. It doesn&rsquo;t raise any real
barrier.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And all that seems to stand between you must fall away because of the
appeal you answered.
</div>

What fulfills purpose is always a decision. You must decide what
fulfills purpose: Listening to your little orphan self or joining with
the Father or the Holy Spirit. And you know what? You won&rsquo;t know
for sure what fulfills purpose until you do the one thing you
haven&rsquo;t done yet and that is practice the holy instant. So do it,
so that you have the experience. And persist in doing it until you have
the experience.  Because you know from what I&rsquo;m saying that
I&rsquo;m telling you the truth and that the Course is educating you
properly with wisdom.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And all that seems to stand between you must fall away because of the
appeal you answered.
</div>

Or I will say, because of the appeal you answer now…now…now…now.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For from you who answered, He Who answered you would call.
</div>

I called to you, the Holy Spirit calls to you, the Father calls to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His home is in your holy relationship.
</div>

&hellip; in your involvement with your brothers and sisters, in your
involvement with everything in your world, which is Creation
misperceived but waiting your true perception of It.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do no attempt to stand between Him and His holy purpose&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; do not attempt to stand between me and my holy purpose &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for it is yours.
</div>

And I will say, as well. Dare to embrace it. Dare to put on the garment
of your holiness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But let Him quietly extend the miracle of your relationship to everyone
contained in it as it was given.
</div>

It&rsquo;s like the movie, &ldquo;Pay it Forward.&rdquo; Give what you
have received before it is asked for.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is a hush in Heaven, a happy expectancy, a little pause of
gladness in acknowledgment of the journey's end. For Heaven knows you
well, as you know Heaven.
</div>

This is in the fulfillment of the holy instant.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No illusions stand between you now. Look not upon the little wall of
shadows.
</div>

&hellip; the remnants of your habit.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The sun has risen OVER it. How can a shadow keep you from the sun? No
more can you be kept by shadows from the light in which illusions end.
</div>

Nothing will take it away from you except your willingness to be
distracted. And as I said, your willingness to be distracted is terribly
weakened, which means that persistence of Vision will not be as hard to
maintain. But you&rsquo;ve got to make the choice for what fulfills
purpose by making a decision and then behaving as though it&rsquo;s
true.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every miracle is but the end of an illusion. Such was the journey; such
its ending. And in the goal of truth which you accepted must ALL
illusions end.

The little, insane wish to get rid of Him Who you invited in and push
Him out MUST produce conflict.
</div>

Simple. And you should be able to recognize the conflict and the
difference between it and the experience of Meaning that you had during
the holy instant. You must recognize the difference so that you may
easily make the choice for what fulfills purpose again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As you look upon the world, this little wish&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; for autonomy, for orphanhood, for becoming something in your
own right which can&rsquo;t be done &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; this little wish uprooted &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which it is now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and floating aimlessly, can land and settle briefly upon
anything, for it HAS no purpose now. Before the Holy Spirit entered to
abide with you, it seemed to have a MIGHTY purpose; the fixed and
unchangeable dedication to sin and its results. Now it is
aimless&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; because you&rsquo;re not convicted in your belief any longer.
You know better even though your knowing hasn&rsquo;t stabilized with
you yet. That comes with persistence of Vision.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Now it is aimless, wandering pointlessly, causing no more than tiny
interruptions in love's appeal.

This feather of a wish&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you know, your sense of yourself as an orphan overcoming
orphanhood &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[he didn&rsquo;t read this] this tiny illusion, this microscopic remnant
of the belief in sin&hellip;

&hellip; is all that remains of what once seemed to be the world.
</div>

The way things are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is no longer an unrelenting barrier to peace.
</div>

And you know what? Even if you have not yet experienced the holy instant
fully, you already have a feeling for it because of what I&rsquo;m
sharing with you and everything we have gone through together since we
started reading the Course.

Some of the work is already done, because that which is divine in you is
recognizing the truth of what I&rsquo;m teaching, of what I&rsquo;m
sharing, of what I&rsquo;m encouraging you with.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Its pointless wandering makes its results appear to be more erratic and
unpredictable than before.
</div>

Things don&rsquo;t seem to be as dependable as they used to be.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet what COULD be more unstable than a tightly-organized delusional
system? Its seeming stability is its pervasive WEAKNESS, which extends
to everything. The variability which the little remnant induces merely
indicates its limited results.

How mighty can a little feather be before the great wings of truth? Can
it oppose an eagle's flight, or hinder the advance of summer? Can it
interfere with the effects of summer's sun upon a garden covered by the
snow? See but how easily this little whisp is lifted up and carried
away, never to return, and part with it in gladness, not regret.
</div>

Hang in with the practice of the holy instant so that the Vision of
truth, the experience of Meaning of everything you&rsquo;re experiencing
can replace the ignorant illustrations, like cartoon figures of the
Kingdom of Heaven. Let them be replaced with the direct experience of
its real meaning of Reality.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; part with it in gladness, not regret. For it is nothing in
itself, and stood for nothing when you had greater faith in its
protection.  Would you not rather greet the summer sun than fix your
gaze upon a disappearing snowflake, and shiver in remembrance of the
winter's cold?
</div>

Yes. So watch it. And when you discover&mdash;because you&rsquo;re more
alert&mdash;that you&rsquo;re willing to abandon your peace for your own
personally satisfying reactions &hellip; catch yourself and stop it! And
like returning to a mantra in a meditation, abandon your reaction and
return to your leaning into the holy instant by shutting up and asking,
&ldquo;Holy Spirit &hellip; Father, what is the truth here?&rdquo;

I love you very much and I look forward to returning next time and being
with you together.

[^1]: T19.4 The Obstacles to Peace

