---
title: Oct 8, 2012
ref: T19.5 The Attraction of Guilt
alink: "/acim/text/19/chap1905/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

There are a couple of things that were discussed last time which I want
to make sure we understand clearly before we move on.

The first thing is, that I said that what fulfills purpose is always a
decision. And that could very easily be construed to mean that decisions
fulfill purpose. &ldquo;Decision&rdquo; is a word that everybody likes
because it implies power, it implies a capacity to direct
things&mdash;cause things to move in a certain way.

The power of decision is a concept promoted in New Thought, metaphysical
thought, New Age thinking and it is glommed onto by almost everyone
because everyone wants to be able to feel secure. And if the power of
decision will supply that security, it is something worth learning
about, acquiring and practicing.

And yet, when I said what fulfills purpose is always a decision, it
didn&rsquo;t have anything to do with any single one of you making a
decision as some form of practice of control. *And this is important*.
It&rsquo;s important that I make it clear because the practice of
decision-making is well established and well valued and yet it is that
practice of decision-making that one has to abandon in order to Wake up,
in order to enter into the holy instant, in order to break one&rsquo;s
autonomy, which is what holds one in a state of orphanhood, mortality
&hellip; period.

Now there are really only two choices of purpose: One is actual and the
other is imagined. But nevertheless they are both treated as real.

One of the practices of purpose, one of the choices of purpose is one
that keeps you asleep&mdash;still dreaming, still incarcerated in the
orphanage. It is a practice of decision that arises out of your logic,
that arises out of your need to be in control, not only of your own mind
so as to have a certain degree of peace, but also as a means of
controlling your fellowman&mdash;your fellow inmates in the orphanage.

And so that practice of decision is one that ensures the continued
dream&mdash;the continued unconsciousness of truth&mdash;because
it&rsquo;s used to establish your private goal to become a real valid
human being even though you&rsquo;re an orphan. And it will be done by
making sure that your fellow orphans continue to believe that they are
orphans so that they might be subject to your decisions, which will of
course be only in your best interest and the sub-heading of that is that
you will do things that make your fellow orphans feel like they are
benefitting&mdash;not because you really want them to benefit, but
because you want them to value you and validate you.

Now the other choice of purpose, which is always the result of a
decision, is to Wake up &hellip; is to step out of the dream of sin,
sickness, death, of a godless universe in which everything is subject to
and arises out of chance.

And the way to do that is what *A Course In Miracles* is about and is what
we have been dealing with all along. But even more pointedly, recently,
it&rsquo;s the practice of the two-step. It&rsquo;s a practice where you
abandon your personal private decision-making, which arises out of your
use of your logic and where you shut up and you stop all the processes
you normally used in order to arrive at a valuable decision. And in the
absence of that, in the silence, you ask, &ldquo;Father&rdquo; or
&ldquo;Holy Spirit, what is the truth here &hellip;&rdquo; followed by
the words, &ldquo;about my fellow man? What is the truth here about that
which I&rsquo;m in relationship with?&rdquo; You see?

You ask not to know yourself better, but *to know your Brother better*.

And in the answer as to the truth about your Brother, you learn the
truth about yourself automatically, spontaneously. And you and your
Brother are healed, and Heaven smiles.

Now I also read from the Course:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have no purpose apart from each other.[^1]
</div> 

And I said that statement is the answer to all of the problems on your
globe.

Now to a certain degree you do believe that you have no purpose apart
from each other. And the purpose you have together is to control each
other so that you don&rsquo;t all kill each other, and so that you
don&rsquo;t hold each other down, and you are able to become a success
at the expense of your Brothers. And of course, your striving for your
success means you&rsquo;re confronted by your Brothers&rsquo; attempts
to keep you from your fulfillment and benefit them. And so, social
existence is a constant contest, which because you have a certain amount
of intelligence, you&rsquo;ve managed to develop a style of, that is
fairly peaceful.

But that isn&rsquo;t what I was talking about.

The simple fact is:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have no purpose apart from each other.
</div> 

And it&rsquo;s more like the Golden Rule: Do unto others as you would
have them do unto you.[^2] The goal is to extend to your Brother love, not
fear and control.

Now the simple fact is that the boundaries that exist are not boundaries
on the surface of the earth, but they are boundaries of groups of people
living in certain areas which exclude for one reason or another, other
groups in other areas. And decisions are made to not love. Decisions are
made to hate. Even if it&rsquo;s a mild dislike, it&rsquo;s still not
love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have no purpose apart from each other.
</div> 

That means, that you have a purpose and the purpose is: Do unto others
as you would have them do unto you. In other words, the one focus you
have before you at all times is to extend caring to everything
you&rsquo;re in relationship with.

&ldquo;Oh, well if I do that, so-and-so is going to get angry and is not
going to accept me, is not going to accept what I&rsquo;ll say.
He&rsquo;s a stubborn one!&rdquo; or &ldquo;They&rsquo;re a stubborn
lot!&rdquo;

And you categorize them as something to withhold love from.  And you
think in your spiritual stance, that you&rsquo;re not to &ldquo;cast
pearls before swine,&rdquo;[^3] you&rsquo;re not to extend yourself.

Well I&rsquo;ll tell you something: Sometimes the extension of love
requires doing something that seems to put you at risk. Sometimes you
have to stand in the Presence of Love that the Father extends to
you&mdash;infills you with&mdash;and you are required to extend it
whether it is received well or not.

&ldquo;Oh, well that&rsquo;s not reasonable!&rdquo;

Well, you know what? You don&rsquo;t have the spiritual luxury to make
such off-handed, mean-spirited, love-withholding statements. Because you
know what the fact is? When the atomic reactors in Fukushima melted
down, there was no healthy way to correct the problem and if the problem
wasn&rsquo;t corrected it could affect the whole island. And so it had
to be corrected and people had to walk into the mouths of danger and
contradict the danger and continue to contradict the danger through
faith until the danger is clear.

Now there are life situations that cause all of us to become very
practical and get off our &ldquo;metaphysical or spiritual high
horse&rdquo; and become involved whether it seems reasonable or not.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have no purpose apart from each other.
</div> 

If your countries are having financial difficulty, if your people, if
mankind on the planet is experiencing being short-changed, this is the
time to say &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here? Father, what is the
truth about my Brother?&rdquo; And here&rsquo;s the real meaning:
&ldquo;Father, what is my Brothers&rsquo; need? What is my neighboring
countries&rsquo; need?&rdquo; Because what you want is not only to be
able to know the truth about the situation&mdash;about the
need&mdash;you want to know the truth that is the answer to the need.

And you&rsquo;re going to need to roll up your sleeves and participate
in the correction. How? By continuing &hellip; by persevering in doing
the two-step so that there are no more flip, off-handed thoughts or
comments that roll off your tongue or out of your mind, that fool you
into believing that you have nothing to do and that you can&rsquo;t do
anything and that there are other things that it&rsquo;s more
appropriate for you to be doing.

Love meets needs. But not if you&rsquo;re ignoring the need, not if
you&rsquo;re claiming &ldquo;time out.&rdquo; But that&rsquo;s not your
task. Your purpose is to be the holy Son or Daughter of God. That means,
it&rsquo;s your purpose for your mind to be the Mind of God because you
have not held out room for anything else, called &ldquo;your piss-ant
little presence&rdquo; on your own.

The need is to be willing to see your Brothers&rsquo; needs so that you
can see the answer to your Brothers&rsquo; needs and how to be part of
the resolution of the need by practicing the two-step, by engaging in
the holy instant and persevering until your mind is changed and you see
the truth.

Now you&rsquo;re all too logical. You are all too intellectual. And
we&rsquo;re at the time, at the point of abandoning it so that you might
experience some progress and so that you might experience some Grace.

When I spoke a few times ago about Paul&rsquo;s experience in the living
room of a friend, where the walls were covered with flocked wallpaper, I
shared that he had a transitioning experience of it and learned from an
inner experience, that the substance of the wallpaper and indeed the
walls and everything else, was Living Love.

Now, do you think Paul was anticipating that? If he had wanted to know
the truth about it, might he have expected an explanation? As I told
you, yes.

Well now, let&rsquo;s turn this on your Brother who seems to be a
heathen, or who seems to be a bastard, or who seems a druggie, or who
seems to be a mean-spirited, unfriendly cuss. What if, in the
willingness to let yourself be infilled with &ldquo;what the truth is
here,&rdquo; your Brother, the mean-spirited cuss, or your Sister
suddenly, obviously becomes to you the Presence of Living Love,
let&rsquo;s say that where he or she is, their body doesn&rsquo;t
disappear but you have an experience of an oval light&mdash;the shape of
an oval illumination in which you realize you&rsquo;re seeing that one
for the first time truly. And again, the Light is living Love. And
although it doesn&rsquo;t have the characteristics of the human body
that you&rsquo;re familiar with, you recognize that one clearly,
perfectly as the holy Son or Daughter of God. And what? You find your
concept, no matter how good it had been, transformed beyond what you
would expect.

You may have thought you were asking, &ldquo;What is the truth here
about my Brother so that I might heal him?&rdquo; But what if the truth
of the matter is, that you learn what the truth is about your Brother so
that you see that you don&rsquo;t need to heal him? There you go. You
see, it doesn&rsquo;t have anything to do with logic.

As I said before, you may after the fact, have to find words to describe
the meaning, the truth that you have learned.

And so it doesn&rsquo;t matter what this religion believes or what that
religion believes. It&rsquo;s adherence are the Sons and Daughters of
God. They are the Expression of God embodying everything that God is
Expressing of Himself right there where they are.

Stop being so sure that you know what your thinking is for or that you
know exactly what the Course is meaning. Because I&rsquo;m telling you,
that although the Course uses logic and it uses words and it expresses
ideas beautifully which trigger transformation, it is the transformation
beyond or out of your present sense of things that is its goal. You see?
And the practice of the holy instant is the means by which, in this
moment &hellip; and this moment &hellip; and this moment, you manage to
escape the bonds of limitation&mdash;the limitations of the definitions
you have given to everything.

So the key is that the decision that always fulfills purpose is the
decision to shut up! And to listen beyond your best thinking, wanting
specifically to know what the Creator&rsquo;s Idea is that He is
manifesting right now &hellip; right now &hellip; right now &hellip; as
you and everything you&rsquo;re in relationship with.

It&rsquo;s an utterly simple thing. The call for Awakening is answered
in the holy instant.

I am not meaning to be monotonous but you are not getting it completely
and so I must say it over.

Relating to everything that exists is something you do when you are
listening for the Father&rsquo;s reply, the Father&rsquo;s communication
to you of the Meaning He is embodying in everything. And what that
means&mdash;the simplicity of that is&mdash;that you really had nothing
else to do all day long, no matter what activity you&rsquo;re engaged in
than saying, &ldquo;Father, what&rsquo;s the truth here?&rdquo; or being
the presence of inquisitive attention as though you don&rsquo;t know, as
though you are a child.

That is the simplicity of it. And what makes it difficult is, that you
have developed means of staying out of the silence, staying out of the
place where you&rsquo;re quiet enough so that you might hear something
else. That&rsquo;s the simplicity of it.

As I&rsquo;ve said, it&rsquo;s not attractive because there&rsquo;s
nothing stimulating about it as far as your having something to be
excited about that relates to your credibility. You see?

To Know the truth is peace. To Know the truth, occurs in the peace. The
peace is not stimulating, but in peace and arising from it is the
Movement of Creation and you have not for a very long time experienced
the awesomeness of that. And I promise you it is far more exciting than
what you experience in the busyness of your mind.

Now what is it that is exciting? Oh, guilt is exciting! Guilt is
stimulating! Guilt makes you stand up and try harder. Guilt makes you
attempt to improve yourself. And so you equate it with the stimulus of
Life.

Be quiet with that for a moment &hellip;

So it&rsquo;s very difficult to imagine being totally alive when
you&rsquo;re just letting Life happen. When you are not giving Life
direction by means of decisions. But this is what you must begin to
engage in, if you want to Wake up&mdash;if you want to experience your
Birthright and be freed from sin, disease and death and a Godless
universe. That is a constant stimulating struggle.

The new section is entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Attraction of Guilt*
</div> 

Well there you are. The attraction of guilt is, it&rsquo;s stimulating
nature and the fact that it keeps you on your toes, keeps you from dying
even by causing you to engage in overcoming problems, which of course
are occurring because you&rsquo;re not taking the time to be silent and
do the two-step.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The attraction of guilt produces fear of love, for love would never look
on guilt at all. It is the nature of love to look upon only the truth,
for there it sees itself, with which it would unite in holy union and
completion. As love must look past fear, so must fear see love not.
</div> 

Now it&rsquo;s important to understand that if you did not validate
guilt, if you did not practice it, so to speak, by not objecting to it,
if you did object to it and neglected to practice it and instead
practiced Love, the experience of guilt would disappear because it
doesn&rsquo;t exist in the clarity of Love.

You can&rsquo;t misunderstand flocked wallpaper that is the presence of
Living Love, nor can you be afraid of it, nor can it do anything less
than provide you with the sudden knowledge that the substance of
everything is Living Love, right then, right there in your brand new
experience of it.

You suddenly have universal Knowledge, universal Knowing about everything. 
And if you would stay with that experience, stay with the Vision and not
jump back into the driver&rsquo;s seat yourself, the Vision would persist 
and Atonement would have occurred.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As love must look past fear, so must fear see love not.
</div> 

If fear could see love, everything fearful that it was
experiencing would become nothing and fear would cease to exist. And
that&rsquo;s the point.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For love contains the end of guilt, as surely as fear depends on it.
Overlooking guilt completely, it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; Love &hellip; sees no fear.

Well, you say, &ldquo;That&rsquo;s nice to know what it&rsquo;s like for
Love, but it&rsquo;s not that way for me.&rdquo; No, and that&rsquo;s
why we&rsquo;re talking, because it&rsquo;s supposed to be that for you.
And it can be that as simply as you&rsquo;re neglecting to validate fear
when it clutches you in the solar plexus.

When you neglect to validate it, when you dismiss it with an abiding
conviction that it is illegitimate, it will leave and there will be no
fear to deal with and there will be nothing to goad you into improving
yourself. And if you have neglected to validate it because of the
persistence of Vision, which you are having because you are actually
engaged in the practice of the holy instant, you will have secured the
stability of your clear Godlike Vision.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Being wholly without attack, it &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; Love &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; COULD not be afraid. Fear is attracted to what love sees not,
and each believes that what the other looks upon does not exist.
</div> 

Of course, Love Knows that fear does not exist. And the actuality of it
is that fear doesn&rsquo;t exist to know that Love wouldn&rsquo;t see
it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fear looks on guilt with just the same devotion that love looks on
itself. And each has messengers which they send forth, and which return
to them with messages written in the language in which their going forth
was asked.
</div> 

So, what is your task? What is your purpose? Your purpose is to decide
not which messengers to send forth, but to decide to send forth Love,
the messengers of Love to look for Love and return with confirmation of
Love. And you thought I was going to say something about doing the other
&hellip; no, not doing anything else. I&rsquo;m not going to say, send
out the messengers of Love and stop sending out the messengers of fear
or hate. I&rsquo;m going to say, send out the messengers of Love. And if
you discover that you&rsquo;re not, [snaps fingers] stop! And send out
the messengers of Love.

How do you do that, though? It&rsquo;s like, &ldquo;Mother, may
I?&rdquo; I say, send out the messengers of Love and you must say,
&ldquo;Mother, may I&rdquo; or &ldquo;Father, may I?&rdquo; And saying
&ldquo;Father, may I&rdquo; means that you hesitated before acting on
your own &hellip; turned to the Father, engaged in the holy instant and
you&rsquo;re going to listen for whether the Father says to do this,
that, or the other thing. And then you will do that! And of course,
always the Father will tell you to send out the messengers of Love from
the Love He is infilling you with.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love's messengers are gently sent&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; in other words, without the excitement of thrill of sending out
fearful ones, messengers of guilt that will prod your Brother into doing
something or stimulate your advance. No.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love's messengers are gently sent&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; you might say, boringly sent, but full of the Meaning of Love
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and return with messages of love and gentleness.
</div> 

You have no purpose apart from each other. And the purpose you have with
each other is to send Love&rsquo;s messengers. To go into the meltdown
no matter how dangerous it seems to be because your Brother and the
truth about him is that important. And what you give you get to keep.
And so your endeavor in spite of the danger, the so-called danger, will
reveal to you no danger at all. And both of you will be held in
perfection, healed or let us say, not in need of healing because
perfection prevails.

On the other hand:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The messengers of fear are harshly ordered to seek out guilt, and
cherish every scrap of evil and of sin which they can find, losing none
of them on pain of death, and laying them respectfully before their lord
and master. Perception cannot obey two masters, each asking for messages
of different things in different languages. What fear would feed upon,
love overlooks. What fear demands, love cannot even see.
</div> 

Logic and your backgrounds would cause you, as you read the Course, to
expect to find ways to cope with the awfulness of fear and guilt and to
learn how to be the active Presence of Love that can be transformational
all by yourself, on your own. And that can&rsquo;t happen. And that
isn&rsquo;t what is called for.

What is called for is the silencing of that in you that wants to be
great at your own hand, and join with the Father because your Brother is
in need. Being willing to walk into the meltdown of whatever sort it
might be because the truth about your Brother is that there could never
have been a meltdown that makes him unworthy of your attention or that
could in some way harm you by bringing your attention to your Brother by
asking the Father, &ldquo;What is the truth here? What is the meaning
here? What is the experience here?&rdquo; You see?

There&rsquo;s too much of an expectation that you&rsquo;re going to have
to change someone else&rsquo;s mind, instead of becoming defenseless
enough yourself in your joining with the Father to have the Father
reveal to you the truth that&rsquo;s been there all along, in spite of
your beliefs to the contrary and your convictions and the decisions
you&rsquo;ve arrived at on the basis of them.

It&rsquo;s time to be healed. It&rsquo;s time for every one of you to be
healed of your misperceptions and your commitment to them. It&rsquo;s
time for the Grace of God to rest upon you and inspire you so that you
might be that witness for the truth about your Brother that heals. Not
because you knew to begin with what would heal, and through your great
skill practice it. But because in your innocence and your willingness to
go into the meltdown with your Brother, you were in that place where the
Father&rsquo;s Love could show up once again because you weren&rsquo;t
blocking it. That&rsquo;s the simplicity of it.

What seems not to be so simple is to have the courage to practice the
two-step, to actually shut up, to actually bring your attention full of
curiosity to hear the Meanings that the Father is Expressing, by means
of the Father revealing them to you and giving you a direct experience
of communion with Him.

Now it&rsquo;s going to be too easy to listen to these words and think
that they are &ldquo;holy jabbering.&rdquo; I&rsquo;m not talking
spiritual talk. I&rsquo;m talking about something in each one of you, as
an experience of commitment, in the face of meltdown or danger or
whatever, in the face of the limitations you&rsquo;ve placed on
everything. Taking the time to do what&rsquo;s out of the ordinary for
you and silence the screaming words that tell you exactly why something
can&rsquo;t happen or tell you exactly what there is about your Brother
or your neighbor or another country that justifies your not listening,
that justifies your not engaging in an act of caring. Because if
you&rsquo;re not engaging in the act of caring, you&rsquo;re not
engaging in joining. And you&rsquo;re not engaging in the one and only 
means you have available to you for coming back into your right Mind.

Most of Waking up is a process of shutting up.

It&rsquo;s a process of doing less on your own, in your own right.
It&rsquo;s a process of arriving where you&rsquo;re not doing anything
on your own, because although, it&rsquo;s the only thing you&rsquo;re
familiar with and everything seems to work, I&rsquo;ll tell you that
&ldquo;the way things work&rdquo; is escaping you. And the joy and the
invulnerability and the bliss and the safety and the absence of sin,
sickness and death&mdash;these are all escaping you.

Why do you like to think? Why do you like to engage in all these things?
Because the excitement of guilt is the engine that moves you to become
something in your own right, at your own hand so that you can prove your
validity. And all the time you&rsquo;re wasting your time attempting to
do what has already been done FOR YOU!

I love you. I love every single one of you. And I will persist in
turning your attention where it needs to be. And I will continue to
encourage you to abandon what isn&rsquo;t working, even though you might
think it is. It is my task to inspire you to at least experiment with
commitment, to see whether what I&rsquo;m saying is the truth. To have
the experience that proves that it is the truth and which will inspire
you to persist by listening more closely within, more consistently and
Wake up &hellip; experience the Atonement.

I look forward to being with your next time.

[^1]: T19.5 The Attraction of Guilt
[^2]: Mathew 7:12 and Luke 6:31
[^3]: Matthew 7:6

