---
title: Oct 21, 2012
ref: T19.5 The Attraction of Guilt
alink: "/acim/text/19/chap1905/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Last time we ended up hearing that:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love, too, would set a feast before you&hellip;[^1]
</div>

&hellip; and what I want everyone to understand is that existence, the
very experience of Being at this very moment for every single one of
you, is an experience of Love setting a feast before you &hellip; except
that you&rsquo;re not experiencing it because you&rsquo;re preoccupied
with seeing everything through your definitions.

Nevertheless, you could say that the Movement of Creation is Itself Love
setting a feast before you. That&rsquo;s the only thing confronting you
ever: A feast being set before you by the Father&rsquo;s Love Moving and
constituting all of Creation.

And then we read further last time:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And in a holy instant grace is said by everyone together, as they join
in gentleness before the table of communion.
</div>

&hellip; In a holy instant: that which happens when you stop and do the
two-step and enter into the holy instant.

When you enter into the holy instant what happens? You stop asserting
yourself. You let peace reign. You let peace be present because you have
shut up your thinking. And you are willing to experience being conscious
without a thought. And through your practice of meditation, your
practice of the two-step&mdash;the holy instant&mdash;you learn to stay
in the stillness for longer and longer periods of time, not just
fleeting moments.

That peace that you allow is the state of Grace. It&rsquo;s the state of
Grace because in the silence you are not practicing judgment, you are
not practicing independence, you are not continuing to affirm your
divorce from your Father&mdash;you are in the womb, if you will. You are
in the vestibule between the orphanage and Creation Itself&mdash;the
direct experience of It. You are in that place where the shift can
occur&mdash;the sudden shift of perception that is called, &ldquo;the
Miracle.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip;And in a holy instant grace is said by everyone together as
they join in gentleness before the table of communion.
</div>

The holy instant is communion. The holy instant is when you experience
the Presence of the Father directly. It&rsquo;s when you experience the
Presence of the Holy Spirit as that which is nothing more than your
right Mind&mdash;the totality of clear conscious awareness.

And in that communion you learn how to see truly because the Holy
Spirit, myself, the Father too, have only one intent when communion
occurs and that is to have you look with Us at everything you have been
looking at but from our Perspective so that you might enjoy and
appreciate It as your Perspective. And in that experience, remember that
it used to be your Perspective. And in that discovery, in that
awareness, you are able to willingly yield to your Birthright as the
holy Son or Daughter of God seeing everything and confirming it for what
it truly Is because you&rsquo;re seeing it as the Father sees it and in
that you confirm Creation, you confirm the Father&rsquo;s Will.

Now, continuing in the book:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I am made welcome in the state of grace&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning in the silence, which I could say is graced by the
absence of your willfulness and the dreary results of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I am made welcome in the state of grace, which means you have at last
forgiven me.
</div>

Well, that may seem strange. Some of you might not ever have thought
that you were holdinganything against me that you needed to forgive me
for. But at the very least, when you have looked upon Creation, when you
have looked upon all that God is Being and you have said, &ldquo;But I
would rather define it myself,&rdquo; you have denied Creation. You have
condemned it to a level of unworthiness in your mind. Because what is
becoming worthy only to you in your mind is your ability to redefine
Creation for your purposes so that you might become a god in your own
right&mdash;the definer of things without a source of your own.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I am made welcome in the state of grace, which means you have at last
forgiven me.
</div>

You have come into the silence and allowed the silence, valued
what&rsquo;s in the womb of silence rather than what you could fill the
silence with. And so you have come without judgment&mdash;completely
without judgment. And that is forgiveness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For I became the symbol of your sin, and so I had to die instead of you.
</div>

Well, of course that&rsquo;s not true, but that is the mutual agreement
and definition that the majority of you have accepted, agreed to and
hold to.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To the ego &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, from this independent stance &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; sin MEANS death, and so Atonement is achieved through murder.
</div>

In other words, the ultimate of the religion, you might say, of the ego,
is murder and that is Atonement. Whereas in actuality, Atonement is
Life&mdash;Life restored as It divinely and truly is&mdash;because you
have been willing to become still and let It register with you on the
Holy Spirit&rsquo;s terms, on the Father&rsquo;s terms. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Salvation is looked upon as a way by which the Son of God was killed
instead of YOU.
</div>

Whew! It&rsquo;s not true. But that is the way it&rsquo;s looked upon,
that is the mutual agreement and its continued practice will disallow
for the holy instant, will disallow for you rejoining with your right
Mind &hellip; being totally integrated once again consciously as the
holy Son or Daughter of God that you Are. That&rsquo;s the truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet would I offer you my body&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in death, I&rsquo;m adding &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you whom I love, KNOWING its littleness?
</div>

No. I would never have done that and I didn&rsquo;t do that.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Or would I teach that bodies can [not] keep us apart?
</div>

No. I wouldn&rsquo;t do that either.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Mine was no greater value than yours; no better means for communication
of salvation, but NOT its Source.
</div>

&hellip; In other words, my body like yours, there can be no better
means than it&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for communication of salvation, but it is NOT its Source.
</div>

&hellip; of salvation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one can die for anyone, and death does not atone for sin. Yet you can
LIVE to show it is not real.
</div>

You can LIVE to show that sin is not real.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The body DOES appear to be the symbol of sin, while you believe that it
can get you what you want.
</div>

You, you poor little orphan who insists on being an orphan and becoming
a valid individual&mdash;a valid presence&mdash;an eternally,
identifiably real, divinely real entity through your private efforts.
And how are you going to do that? You do it through the use of your
body. Your body is the means by which you control your reality into your
experience at the expense of your Brothers and yours at the expense of
your Brothers&rsquo; misuse and misunderstanding of you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
While you believe that it can give you pleasure, you will also believe
that it can bring you pain.
</div>

When you got the divorce, in your imagined state of independence you are
denying the Reality&mdash;God&rsquo;s Reality of you&mdash;and then
you&rsquo;re trying to make yourself Real and in the process you are
subject to pleasure and pain.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To think you could be satisfied and happy with so little is to hurt
yourself, and to limit the happiness that you would have, calls upon
pain to fill your meager store and make your lives complete.
</div>

In the absence of your wholeness, in the absence of your peace, in the
absence of the harmony and security and inviolability of your Being,
which you have denied, it &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; calls upon pain to fill your meager store and make your lives
complete.
</div>

And of course, as we discussed, the experience of pain and the
experience of guilt&mdash;whatever hurts&mdash;is used by you to further
commit yourself to your plan of salvation which is to achieve your
wholeness on your own. And that, because it cannot be done, causes you
to be confronted by the impossibility, which you experience as threat
and imposition and unwarranted blocking of your path, which it is your
task to overcome in order to win the prize, to get the brass ring, to
become Real.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This IS completion, as the ego sees it. For guilt creeps in where
happiness has been removed, and substitutes for it.
</div>

It comes in with fear as well, as we said, the moment you committed with
your divorce from your Father you were confronted with the pair: guilt
and fear.

I&rsquo;m going to add the word &ldquo;but,&rdquo; before I continue
with the next sentence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But Communion is another kind of completion, which goes beyond guilt,
because it goes beyond the body.
</div>

Communion: Joining with me, joining with the Holy Spirit, joining with
the Father in communion&mdash;in actual connection&mdash;not like a babe
nestling into a soft blanket and having some experience of communion
with its softness and its warmth, but a connection in which
communication, dialog, two-way, reciprocal experience is had.

Now, that is the function of the holy instant. And to make it clear:
When you engage in the holy instant and you find yourself being
communicated with, when you find yourself being in-filled with answers,
with understanding, with experience that goes beyond the bounds of any
experiences you have had so far, when you abide with your Guide or the
Holy Spirit and, as we discussed last week, you with your Guide or the
Holy Spirit turn and look at whatever it was that prompted you to turn
to your Guide, to practice the holy instant, you together with your
Brother&rsquo;s perspective, mine, or the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s
Perspective will see a forgiven world. You will see the Kingdom of
Heaven, which is no longer being obscured by the definitions you embrace
now and are so confident about.

Now, just as with Paul right now, when he is being with me in this
fashion, in the holy instant, he is perfectly capable of relating to you
or anything in the room. His body is present, but he is not identifying
with it. As it says in the Course, he has laid it aside, which
doesn&rsquo;t mean he&rsquo;s let it die, to decompose and disappear
into the nothingness of all illusions. No. It means that when you turn
to communion, it takes you beyond the body, it takes you beyond the
self-defense that it&rsquo;s used for, or the coercion that it&rsquo;s
used for to get your way, to get what you want. It means that it is here
to serve not your will, but the purpose and Meaning of Being, as it is
unfolding in the holy instant. You see what I mean?

Don&rsquo;t ever be troubled by the term &ldquo;setting the body aside,
laying the body aside.&rdquo; You will lay the use you have put it to
aside, when you decide to engage in the holy instant, when you decide to
abandon your best judgments, your best thinking, your best concepts, and
in the silence brought on by their absence, you reach out and you say,
&ldquo;Father, Holy Spirit, what is the truth here? What is it my
Birthright to be experiencing, because I am whole and because I am the
holy Son or Daughter of God to Whom I&rsquo;m turning and from Whom I
wish to gain my understanding of what everything Really is.&rdquo;

Your body does not disappear but it ceases to be used for the purposes
that the ego would have used, which is to lovelessly control everyone
and everything, to serve the selfish purposes of the one identifying
with the body. The result of that is war. The result of that is murder,
death, disease&mdash;a state of conflict in which one thing attacks
another thing and brings about its submission or its demise. To give
this up is not a sacrifice.

So again, it becomes clearer how significant the holy instant is and
what its Meaning and its function is and what you can expect to
experience, or the nature of what you can expect to experience.

I am here to invite and motivate you to go against everything you have
known, and use this simple means of doing it, which is to &ldquo;shut
up!&rdquo; It is simple. Become still. Value the stillness because in
the stillness that is not objected to, you experience or are
experiencing the state of Grace in which Atonement can occur, in which
coming back into your right Mind can occur. And you will find yourself
experiencing stability, immovability like the Rock of Gibraltar that
can&rsquo;t be swayed by winds of change or opinions or any of the
things that would have caused you fear in the past. It brings you into
that place, as we&rsquo;ve said before, where God&rsquo;s laws prevail
and your holiness is the undeniable fact of you in your very own
consciousness.

Bring this Gift of Grace to your Brothers, your Sisters, your Fellowman.
It is meant to transform the world and restore it in your awareness to
its original and ever-present state of perfection.

Now I&rsquo;m going to stop here for tonight and I encourage you all to
gently abide with what I&rsquo;ve shared tonight during this coming
week. And if it seems difficult, if it seems to be useless, if you seem
to not be accomplishing anything, don&rsquo;t stop. You are doing
something that flies right in the face of all of your confidences. And
so it takes persistence to break down the confidences. It takes
persistence to inspire you to persist with a lighter heart! Communion is
inevitable in the holy instant.

I am there in the holy instant. Love is setting a feast before you. I am
setting a feast before you. The Holy Spirit is setting a feast before
you. And you are invited to it. And you have always been invited to it.
And you are always welcome to it because you are not a sinner. You are
the holy Son or Daughter of God experiencing it clearly or through a
glass darkly. But whichever way you are seeing it, you are nevertheless
the holy Son or Daughter of God unchangeably.

I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: T19.5 The Attraction of Guilt

