---
title: Nov 5, 2012
ref: Discussion
---

Okay. We&rsquo;ve spent a lot of time talking about the holy instant. In
fact, I imagine some of you are wondering when we will get on with
things and have something new to think about&mdash;something new to
stretch your imagination and your boundaries.

But the holy instant is so fundamental and so important that I want not
to move on until it sinks in deeply&mdash;registers deeply&mdash;so that
your behavior changes, so that you begin to be in a new way. It is this
beginning to be in a new way that constitutes Atonement, that
constitutes Awakening, that constitutes the fruits of everything that
the Course teaches.

Now we&rsquo;ve discussed the fact that Awakening is not a private
affair. You cannot, no one can, in an independent fashion, learn enough
to Wake up. It&rsquo;s impossible because it leaves an essential element
out. And the essential element that it leaves out is your Brother and
your Sister. And foremost, it leaves out God.

The holy instant is to be used for a specific purpose. And that is to
establish and nurture a holy relationship. It&rsquo;s that simple.
That&rsquo;s why Awakening is not a private affair. It is a matter of
relationship. It is a matter of involvement, not involvement of the sort
that one engages in, in the orphanage, in the place of independence, but
that which occurs in peace and in the atmosphere and substance of Love.

In the environment of the orphanage, relating is always a matter of
control&mdash;of governing to the best of each one&rsquo;s ability the
environment that the group finds itself in. And so you might say,
everyone participates in government.

But the problem is that the government is based upon a fundamental idea
or misbelief called &ldquo;independence.&rdquo; And so government is a
matter of independent factions or elements all working for and against
each other in grand ways. I mean by that, huge complicated ways so as
to create order and fulfillment of goals that have been set by all these
independent governing agents. You see?

And so relationships are a constant argument. Relationships are a
constant, we&rsquo;ll say, disagreement that is being forced into
agreement. It&rsquo;s always tense. Because each one is simultaneously
attempting to control others&mdash;govern others&mdash;while at the same
time doing his best to not be controlled by the others. This is the
tension, this is the polarization and it is accepted as the normal
fundamental nature of existence.

And so it&rsquo;s never called into question. It&rsquo;s just lived.

Now that&rsquo;s not what the holy instant is about. Because the holy
instant is entered into for the purpose, as I said, of establishing and
nurturing a holy relationship. Meaning, a relationship that is,
I&rsquo;m going to say, initiated by one who turns in the silence of his
thinking&mdash;the absence of his thinking&mdash;to the Father and says,
&ldquo;Father, what is the truth here about this one I&rsquo;m in
relationship with?&rdquo; or &ldquo;What is the truth about this thing
that I am in relationship with?&rdquo; You see?

It&rsquo;s not a question seeking positive affirmative satisfying
answers about one&rsquo;s self but about another. You see? And
you&rsquo;re well aware from all of the sharings that we&rsquo;ve had
together that this is the secret, you might say, it&rsquo;s the
surprise. The way you get to Wake up is by caring more about someone
you&rsquo;re in relationship with than yourself.

You know, in almost every religion there is an equivalent to the Golden
Rule and the rule is set above others by being called,
&ldquo;Golden.&rdquo; And the Golden Rule is &ldquo;thou shalt do unto
others as you would have them do unto you.&rdquo;[^1] The Golden Rule is
a rule of behavior, of your behavior toward another. The Golden Rule
doesn&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;force others to behave toward you the way you
would behave toward them.&rdquo; You&rsquo;re not the focus of the
Golden Rule. The one you&rsquo;re in relationship with is.

Being in an orphanage is a result of a false position that has been
taken that says, &ldquo;I have no Father, I have no Mother, I have no
Source.&rdquo; And it&rsquo;s not true. And everything that is done from
that standpoint is selfish. It is independence carried to the extreme.
And it never does what solves the problem that everyone through his or
her independence is attempting to get away from.

The only thing that will solve the problem is to care more about another
than you care about yourself.

Now that&rsquo;s the new governance. That&rsquo;s the uncommon
governance. &ldquo;I wish to see the truth. I wish to see the
God&rsquo;s honest truth about my Brother. And I refuse to act on any
other basis than that which becomes clear to me when in the silence I
ask for clarity and it is given.&rdquo; You see?

I know you get the picture. But everyone needs to get the picture
clearly enough to consciously put it into practice so that your behavior
changes. Because until the behavior changes, you&rsquo;re still in the
orphanage and you&rsquo;re still in the place where government arises
out of a sense of inadequacy that has to be overcome at the expense of
others. And of course for those others, it&rsquo;s at your expense.

And so you must be wary of governance that arises in your mind or in the
minds of others around you that doesn&rsquo;t arise out of a clear
experience of wholeness &hellip; of your wholeness that has become clear
to you as an experience because you&rsquo;ve shut up your independent
thoughts, acts and reasonings, and you&rsquo;ve said in the absence of
them, &ldquo;What is the God&rsquo;s honest truth here that I
don&rsquo;t remember, that I don&rsquo;t seem to yet know? What is it? I
will persist in listening for that until I hear it. Because I understand
from what I&rsquo;m being taught that this is the way out of
illusion.&rdquo;

Now your globe is in a great state of upheaval. Governments are
problematic because those in government believe that they are orphans
and that the only way to attain order is through control based upon
ideas, ideas which are based in a misunderstanding&mdash;a
misunderstanding about everything you&rsquo;re in relationship
with&mdash;that it&rsquo;s certainly not holy, that it&rsquo;s certainly
not trustworthy, that it is certainly flawed and that its flaws will
always surface in mean-spirited, thoughtless, manipulative acts.

It&rsquo;s inevitable that this is the way social being will work
because of the nature of the &ldquo;animal&rdquo; of that which everyone
is in relationship with. You see?

This is what everyone must step out of. And the stepping out of it is
accomplished again, through the practice of the holy instant for the
purpose of establishing and nurturing a holy relationship&mdash;a
relationship which is established and nurtured according to the clarity
of the Father&rsquo;s Mind and the Father&rsquo;s Love that He shares
with you so that you might embody It and be new.

Now when there are relationships, there are naturally or there is
naturally, cooperation. Cooperation is a &ldquo;working together.&rdquo;
Cooperation is not a means of successfully controlling.

It&rsquo;s important to see that difference. It&rsquo;s important to see
it so that you don&rsquo;t inadvertently get caught up in engaging in
control instead of cooperation. And it&rsquo;s important because
you&rsquo;re not going to be able to see the truth about your Brother or
relate to him constructively if you think that the absence of control
will bring about chaos.

The holy instant calls upon everyone to risk the chance that no one is
really an orphan. And that if one approaches his Brother or Sister as
though he or she is the holy Son or Daughter of God, you will not get
stabbed in the back, that there will not be a price to pay because until
you bring that faith to your relationship, there will not be the
elements necessary for both of you to relax and be in a new way, from a
new paradigm.

Now as I said, in relationships there is cooperation &hellip; there is
cooperation.

Now for cooperation to be constructive and fulfilling you must
understand where those you are cooperating with are coming from. Are
they coming from the orphan mentality or are they coming from a
connectedness with the Father&rsquo;s Perspective? Are they coming from
the place where all the details of relationship are manipulative,
combative, controlling, where everyone is afraid of everyone else and
therefore can&rsquo;t truly afford to care because caring is dangerous
and makes you vulnerable because you don&rsquo;t have your guard up?

You must pay attention! Because if you&rsquo;re going to cooperate
you&rsquo;re going to have to make some choices&mdash;choices as to whom
you will cooperate with.

Now the other vantage point of course, the other option for this
cooperation, is one where the Golden Rule comes into play and has
meaning: &ldquo;Do unto others as you would have them do unto
you.&rdquo; You know, that at the bottom line, when you&rsquo;re not
caught up in your ego-mentality, caring is important. Being cared about
is important. Humanity is important. The experience of humaneness is
important.

These are the fundamentals upon which the holy instant and holy
relationships grow and thrive. But they start simply. They don&rsquo;t
start with highfalutin ideas. They don&rsquo;t start with being great.
They don&rsquo;t start with grand ideas that everyone must conform to in
order to build a huge structure of magnificent excellence of agreements
and definitions and meanings that everyone must abide by and ultimately
serve. No.

True government arises out of one&rsquo;s ability to connect with what?
Not success! Not importance! &hellip; but one&rsquo;s capacity to
recognize and engage with need. Do you hear that?  The road to
salvation &hellip; the road to salvation is the road where needs are
felt, paid attention to and corrected. And so you could say that
Awakening is going to be a Movement among the needy. And that really
means, those who aren&rsquo;t puffed up with their own importance and
their own grand ideas that everyone must gather around and conform to,
so that importance can be achieved and shared. But of course, not shared
fully with the one who didn&rsquo;t generate it, which leaves things
still in a state of contest, orphan mentality, actions, activities,
events. You see? That&rsquo;s not what&rsquo;s needed.

So, if you want to move forward in terms of Awakening, in terms of,
let&rsquo;s say, being on a true path, the call is for you to
acknowledge your neediness and to be willing to recognize and not stand
in judgment of others&rsquo; neediness so that all of you, in need,
might join together in Love&mdash;the desire to see the need corrected,
to see the need fulfilled&mdash;so that need is no longer experienced.

But as you can see, this is only going to happen with humble &hellip;
with humbleness, with humble people, with humble participants in
relationships.

Now, as you observe the things that are going on in your world today and
the contentiousness and the threat and everything else, you&rsquo;re
going to have to make a choice as to whom you&rsquo;re going to actively
participate with. Those from the orphan mentality&mdash;the mentality of
lack which exists to be overcome, which always involves righteousness
and judgment: us and them, higher and lower and so on, you&rsquo;re
going to have to be willing to say, &ldquo;No, I will not join with and
support that, because there is no humanity in it. There is no caring
about one&rsquo;s Brother or Sister in it. You see?

This is important. And you&rsquo;re going to need to take a look at it
because choices need to be made if correction of the situation is going
to occur. And what I am making very clear and what I&rsquo;m explaining
in a way so that you can relate what the Course has been teaching to
everyday real life, I&rsquo;m saying: Align yourselves with, cooperate
with those who recognize the existence of need and value the
individualities who are experiencing need so that answers can be brought
in the simplest most direct way to the correction of the need because
the result of Love is simple.

Love is simplicity. Caring is an urging, an urgency that seeks to find
wholeness that gives relief from need. Whatever apparent structures are
built upon the recognition of need and the listening for how the simple
human need can be met will lead to the correction of the situation on
your globe. I&rsquo;m saying the correction of the **situations** on
your globe.

There is much relaxing into peace. There is much letting go into natural
order that needs to occur and can occur. But you must avoid governance
applied to you or that you apply to others. You must avoid such that
arises not out of caring and love, but the fulfilling of some concept of
righteousness.

If attention and nurturance is given to that which does not support
humanity, salvation will not be arrived at, correction will not be
arrived at, further pain and distress will come into the picture.

Join with those who value humanity. Your Brother, on the lowest rung of
some conceptual ladder is your salvation. Everyone in a state of need is
your savior because he or she gives you the one to have a holy
relationship with. Relationships with orphans distract you from having
a holy relationship because it keeps you in a state of excitement as
well as defense and it maintains a wall between everyone. It&rsquo;s not
what the truth is about. It&rsquo;s not what the Course is about.

Be willing only to join with those who recognize and acknowledge need
and see those needs to be the things to be directly
expressed&mdash;simply addressed as mutual Brotherly love that provides
the simple answer, because the simple answer is available.

Value your humanity. Don&rsquo;t despise it and try to rise above it.
Your needs need to be attended to, even though they are not real, even
though they are the result of unclear thinking &hellip; of mistakes that
weren&rsquo;t seen as mistakes and keep getting repeated and on and on.

Demand that those whom you would be willing to cooperate with and those
who want you to cooperate with them, demand of them that you want the
attention to be given to humanity, humaneness, Brotherly love, because
you care and because everyone needs everyone else to witness for them.
That&rsquo;s the simple truth.

What do you think is happening when one engages in the two-step, in the
holy instant and a holy relationship emerges and is nurtured? What do
you think is happening? That happens because you&rsquo;ve been willing
to stop thinking about yourself and wanting to know what the truth about
your Brother is. Why would you want to know the truth about your
Brother? Because your knowing it constitutes you being a witness for his
holiness. You see?

Whew &hellip; the day of the self-made man is past. It never was valid.
The time for relationships is here because the infiniteness of
God&rsquo;s Creation is an infiniteness of holy relationships. And God
in them will only become clearly apparent, clearly manifest when
everyone is insisting upon the fruits of caring, the correction of
suffering, the solving of need. This is the wonderful simple truth.

But again I must say, a change in behavior needs to occur. Not just a
change of a repertoire of ideas and thoughts to be mulled-over, thought
about and expressed with others &hellip; actual change.

Whenever you put yourself in position of allowing others to speak for
you which cannot be avoided in the process of cooperation, always be
sure of the foundation from which that one works. Is he a controller, a
manipulator? Is he one who sees wealth and success as the thing to be
served? Or is he one who values humanity and who bases everything he
does with everyone else on the meeting of needs and the increase of
humanity, humanness, human kindness in the world. Don&rsquo;t join with
the selfish ones, else you will promote his or her goals and you will
suffer from them as well.

It&rsquo;s time, globally, for everyone to do the thing that seems to be
the weakest thing, the most ineffective thing that you could do,
certainly nothing that would move mountains. And yet, the need is
simple. You engage in caring and desiring humaneness enough to shut up
your own egotistic controlling efforts. And in the silence listen and
ask, &ldquo;What is the truth here about my Brother? What is the truth
about the situations in my community, in my town, in my country that
needs to be corrected with humaneness as its foundational
attribute?&rdquo; And give your attention to that. Let that caring
supersede your inclination to be frustrated and expressing your
frustration.

Start using your mind in a new way, in the simple way of Love and put
your brothers and sisters on notice that that&rsquo;s what you want from
them as well.

Let others know it&rsquo;s important to you. It&rsquo;s important to
everyone! But someone has to stand up and start saying it, putting it in
the air to give others who are afraid, the courage to say it and put it
in the air. And until you say it, those who would attempt to govern
mean-spiritedly, competitively, and to your disadvantage, they need to
hear that this is the kind of governance you want &hellip; that this is
the kind of relationship you want. You see?

This will constitute the beginning of transformation on your globe. No
one is powerless. I&rsquo;m not talking about the kind of power that is
expressed by those who seem to be in charge. No one is powerless when it
comes to the use of their mind. And everyone has the capacity to choose
what they are going to give their attention to.

You can without interference, choose to do the two-step. In other words,
stop, shut up and ask, &ldquo;What is the truth here?&rdquo;
That&rsquo;s the engagement called the holy instant. And when you move
into the holy instant, you are aware God&rsquo;s laws prevail. You are
aware the Movement of Reality that meets the human need, comes forth.
And in solving the human need, demonstrates humanity. You see?

That&rsquo;s where everyone is at. And everyone has the power of
self-governance that without fail, will work.

I love you all.

Begin to give to your world the support it needs for transformation by
valuing humanity, humaneness, the meeting of the need, and stick with it
because there has arisen in you a caring brought by your desire to know
the truth about your Brother so that you might be able to witness for
him from the clarity that has filled you up. That&rsquo;s the task now.

I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: Mathew 7:12

