---
title: Nov 12, 2012
ref: T19.6 Obstacles to Peace, The Second Obstacle
alink: "/acim/text/19/chap1906/"
fb:
 desc: "NWFFACIM: T19.6 Obstacles to Peace, The Second Obstacle"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the Internet.

In the practice of the two-step, you employ the practice of peace. You
choose for the silence in you&mdash;that altar in you&mdash;which is not occupied by
the business of your personal private thoughts. And in that silence
within, not giving preference to your attention to things without, you
ask to know the Truth. You ask to have the Father&rsquo;s Perspective, which I
have been telling you has been placed in you from the Beginning and has
never left.

Now, in the process of choosing for your peace, there are four things
that have to be met or dealt with, or passed by, moved beyond, let&rsquo;s put
it that way. These are: the desire to get rid of the peace which we&rsquo;ve
already discussed and as we&rsquo;re going to talk about tonight, *The Belief
that the Body is Valuable for what it Offers*. The next obstacle is *The
Attraction of Death*. And the last obstacle is *The Fear of God*.

If you sit quietly contemplating these four items you&rsquo;ll find that each
one is, shall I say, progressively more difficult to cope with or
progressively presents a more difficult obstacle to get past. Fear of
God is the last.

Now, these four things are dealt with in the order that you can handle
most easily. Choosing for your peace in the holy instant is the easiest,
it&rsquo;s easier than actually abandoning the fear of God or the fear of what
God&rsquo;s Presence would do to you considering who you think you are
presently, which is a mortal, a sinner, a flawed presence that must
improve itself but as long as it hasn&rsquo;t, there is a still the penalty
for the flaws that God will surely meet you with. And so you couldn&rsquo;t
possibly deal with the fear of God first.

The willingness to embrace peace&mdash;to let go of what objects to it&mdash;is the
easiest. And it opens the door for communion with the Holy Spirit or
with the Father. It opens the door, you might say, briefly but easily,
and it puts you in the position of being able to hear divine Guidance
even if it is brief. And its continued practice allows it to happen more
frequently, more easily, and the communion changes you. The communion
reduces your fear of peace and prepares you to be able to take on the
second obstacle to peace with not only more confidence but more
understanding.

Now the second obstacle is:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Belief the Body is Valuable for What it Offers.[^1]
</div>

Well my goodness, what does the body offer each of you? What it offers
you is, shall I say, the manifest presence of force that enforces and
embodies physically, the presence of you. That&rsquo;s what it does. It
provides you with the capacity to be in control through the use of
force, even if the only force you are exercising is yelling at someone&mdash;a
strong voice, a committed sound, the presence of, or shall I say, the
absence of weakness. Still, it&rsquo;s the use of force for the purpose of
controlling, influencing, making things happen.

Now, we have talked in the past about the fact that as an infant, you
experienced physical sensations not only of what you learned to call
your body but the body of your mother, the body of your father, the
bodies of your brothers and sisters and you experienced each of them as
discrete presences just as you experienced yourself as a discrete
presence. But the thing that escaped your attention and the thing that
your parents and siblings could not educate you about and inform you
about, was the fact that you are not the discrete body you thought you
were and no one else was the discrete body they appeared to be. But you
and they were the presence of Mind&mdash;consciousness experiencing all of
these experiences of form and tangibility. You see?

It escaped everyone&rsquo;s attention that they were Mind, not body.

And so, all of the developmental processes in growing up reinforced and
confirmed the misunderstanding&mdash;the misperception&mdash;until someone came
along like me, or until someone engaged in meditation and inadvertently,
we&rsquo;ll say, engaged in the two-step and the holy instant, discovered that
Mind was the ground of Being, not matter, not form.

Now someone is educating you and making available the truth about
existence in a manner that can easily reach everyone. And so you are all
learning to make a shift.

Now it&rsquo;s important to understand this because there are misperceptions
about it and I&rsquo;ve talked about them before too. Basically it is this:
The Course says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I am not a body, I am still free to be as God created me.
</div>

Now, because of the absolute identification with form that everyone has
been involved in, this statement seems to say that a spiritual
understanding of things means that bodies are illusions. And it&rsquo;s not
true. There is that which identifies you. There is that which makes you
experienceable. And I&rsquo;ve said this many times and it continues to need
to be said in order to facilitate the shift of consciousness that
constitutes a miracle.

Now you are not a body but you are not bodiless. You are not without
that which identifies you. And yes, you are still free to be as God
created you. Which means you are still free to be the Mind&mdash;the
conscious awareness in which all experience of Creation occurs, in which
all Ideas of Mind are experienced as being substantial to the Mind that
formed them, but without ever becoming less than the Idea that is
rendered visible. To become less than the Idea would be to become the
visibility&mdash;the identification. And that is not what you are. And that is
the misperception that Awakening pulls you out of.

That is why the belief that the body is valuable for what it offers is
something that peace moves across as it shifts your perception.

Now when you are angry, when you are perturbed, when you are irritated,
you experience physical sensations. When you are depressed, there is a
thickness in the head. It&rsquo;s not a headache but it&rsquo;s as though a
scull-cap is on and weighing heavily and pressing down so that it&rsquo;s a
downward feeling. There&rsquo;s a sensation usually, you think you experience
it first, and so you think that depression has come over you when in
fact there is an idea&mdash;an idea of a loss of power, an idea of being
inconsequential, ineffective, incapable through force and the use of
your body to do anything to lift yourself up.

And you believe it. You don&rsquo;t challenge it and say, &ldquo;Wait a minute
&hellip; Father, are You giving me these sensations? Holy Spirit, is
this a true experience I&rsquo;m having? Am I depressed? Do I need to find a
way, through the use of my body, to exert force to establish the
presence of me in the world?&rdquo;

Well the answers are no, of course. And yet it&rsquo;s very hard to abandon
them because you have the physical sensations&mdash;the physical sensations
you value. You think they are important. You think they must be acted
upon or you think that you are obligated to let them act upon you and
you must just suffer.

Again, it&rsquo;s not true. And it does arise out of the fact that you feel
that the body has essential value to you because it will keep you alive.
It will allow you to become a success. It will allow you to create and
maintain order. Of course it will be your personal private sense of
order and not one that takes into consideration everyone and everything.
And so peace must move across this obstacle.

Now, I want you to pay attention&mdash;you must pay attention to your frame of
mind. You must watch to see when the emotions shift and when they seem
justified and when they seem to call for a show of force of one form or
another to save you &hellip; to make you safe!

&ldquo;Well &hellip;&rdquo; you say, &ldquo;Nothing ever happened to my benefit if I or
someone else didn&rsquo;t exert a little force and make changes so that there
was greater harmony. Nothing has ever happened without the expression
of power&mdash;physical power.&rdquo;

Now it&rsquo;s not true. Think about it for a moment.

Has no one ever experienced transformation of one sort or
another&mdash;sometimes miraculous&mdash;occurring because of the presence of Love
embodied by you or someone else? Has no transformation occurred as a
result of a sudden shift of perception, as a result of your mind being
imbued with something miraculous above and beyond your personal capacity
to conceive?

Of course this has happened. But it doesn&rsquo;t occur to you that total and
complete safety, absolute invulnerability is your Birthright when you
engage in the holy instant and you let yourself, your Mind&mdash;the presence
of Mind that you Are&mdash;be filled with the Love and the Grace that the
Father bestows upon you, that your experience is being bestowed upon you
because you&rsquo;re not objecting to it as much as in the past? You see? Your
Birthright&mdash;your wholeness&mdash;lies in the complete absence of the use of
body as a means of reinforcing a sense of the presence of you in the
world that not only changes the world but that others recognize, we&rsquo;ll
say, as a force to be reckoned with. You see?

It&rsquo;s difficult to give this up because it is a misperception that
occurred within moments after birth and you were flooded with sensations
and you were completely ignorant of the fact there was Something
experiencing the sensations. There was Mind. You see?

Now let&rsquo;s go into the book:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We said that peace must first surmount the obstacle of your desire to get rid
of it. Where the attraction of guilt holds sway, peace is not WANTED.
</div>

You see? Because you have more important things to do that are active
and that arise out of the stimulus of fear and excitement and this is
interpreted by you to mean that it&rsquo;s the vitality of life motivating you
to engage in discovery. And it&rsquo;s your nature to discover. You&rsquo;re a
discovery mechanism. You&rsquo;re here to do that!

So you don&rsquo;t want peace because you say, &ldquo;Peace? Well nothing exciting
can happen there. Nothing like fear is there to motivate me.&rdquo; And so on.
We discussed this at some length.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The second obstacle that peace must flow across, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you get that? &hellip; flow across, flow across like water
across a river-bed when the first rains of Spring come. It flows. It
doesn&rsquo;t bull-doze its way through. It lets itself through. It flows. No
act of force required.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The second obstacle that peace must flow across, and closely related to the
first, is the belief that the body is valuable for what it offers.
</div>

And we&rsquo;ve just discussed what it offers: The presence of force, the presence
of energy that can motivate and make things happen!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For here is the attraction of guilt made manifest in the body, and SEEN in it.
</div>

You see? First of all you want not to have peace so that you can respond
to the stimuli of fear which will move you to become more than you are.
And then the second part of it is that you have a body with which to
accomplish these goals&mdash;these needs. You see? The first part isn&rsquo;t true
and the second part isn&rsquo;t true.

You are not a body but you are still as God created you to be. And so
that which identifies you, continues to identify you, even though you
are not using it as your focal point of action. You are recognizing your
Mind, your conscious awareness, as that Presence of attention which
follows, which flows with, the Movement of Creation, without force.

And then as we&rsquo;ve said, in your giving It your attention and flowing
with It, you are confirming the Movement of Creation that God is Being
and you are co-partnering with God, you are cooperating with God, you
are confirming the Movement of Creation by virtue of your attention.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This the value that you think peace would rob you of.
</div>

Meaning this, the body&mdash;that which gives force to your presence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This the value that you think peace would rob you of. This is what you believe
that it would dispossess, and leave you homeless.
</div>

You see? You think [chuckles] just like you do when you hear the
statement: &ldquo;I am not a body I am still free to be as God created me,&rdquo;
you think that statement is going to dispossess you of the visibility
and tangibility of your individuality which you have called &ldquo;your body&rdquo;
and which you have defined within the first thirty seconds of your
birth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is what you believe that it would dispossess, and leave you homeless. And
it is this for which you would deny a home to peace.
</div>

You see? Now you might experience peace and the holy instant and the
Guidance and inspiration that naturally accompanies it. But you can&rsquo;t
seem to hold onto the experience. And so it passes and you have to renew
it. And so you practice the holy instant frequently. And each time you
practice it, it becomes easier. And each time you practice it the
duration of the peace increases. But then life interferes and calls for
you to use your body as the force that identifies your presence in a way
that allows for control to occur. You see? And you lost the peace and
so you have to do it again. You have to engage in the holy instant
again.

The time comes when you need to make commitment to it completely.
Because that&rsquo;s the only thing that brings you back into the full
experience of your Birthright.

But again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it is this &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the loss of your body &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for which you would deny a home to peace. This &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; so-called &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; &ldquo;sacrifice&rdquo; you feel to be too great to make, too much to ask of you.
</div>

But only because you don&rsquo;t understand what it means. You don&rsquo;t
understand what I&rsquo;ve just explained. Now you do have an understanding
and it will be easier for you to risk the chance that abandoning the
body as the vantage point from which you experience everything will
cause you a loss. When the fact is, that abandoning the body as the
vantage point and adopting the Mind, which has been with you all along
and you don&rsquo;t have to fabricate or imagine, letting that Mind be the
focal point from which you experience everything. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Is it a sacrifice, or a release? What has the body really given you that
justifies your strange belief that in it lies salvation?
</div>

Well, I understand that it seems to have given you a certain amount of
control that has perhaps saved you, that has perhaps made your life more
tolerable, maybe even greatly blessed. But the point is, that you are
not a body and any successful use you put it to that convinces you that
it is foolish to abandon the body as your vantage point, that must be
overcome! You must arrive at a place where you&rsquo;re willing to abandon
that, even if it&rsquo;s only for the sake of experiment, to see whether what
I&rsquo;m saying is true or not.

If the experiment doesn&rsquo;t occur, you will continue to see yourself as a
body&mdash;vulnerable. And because you&rsquo;re experiencing the visibility and
tangibility of your individuality as something that started from a sperm
and an egg, a purely physical organism, having nothing to do with the
divine Source, your experience of your body will be full of pleasure and
pain&mdash;conflicting experiences. And they will be unavoidable. They will be
ever present until you make this shift from body identification to Mind
identification.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What has the body really given you that justifies your strange belief that in
it lies salvation?
</div>

Nothing!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do you not see that this is the belief in death?
</div>

You see? As long as you continue to identify with the body as a body
that happens to have this strange capacity to have ideas because of the
way a hunk of meat in your head functions, as long as you embrace that
you are dissociated from the very thing that constitutes your eternality
and the undisturbed experience of harmony and health and peace, which is
your relationship to your Father, which tells you who you Are and which
puts you in the place of being able to desire to know what the Father&rsquo;s
Perspective is, because the Father&rsquo;s Perspective is now relevant to
you&mdash;It is now relevant to you&mdash;making it worthwhile to give your
attention to.

The belief that the body has given you something. Well &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Here is the focus of the perception of Atonement as murder.
</div>

&hellip; which we talked about: The ego&rsquo;s definition of Atonement is not you
abandoning the ego, it is you confirming your mortality. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Here is the source of the idea that love is fear. The Holy Spirit's
messengers are sent far beyond the body, calling the mind to join in
holy communion and be at peace.
</div>

Calling what? The mind. Because Mind is what you Are. And calling the
Mind that you Are to join in holy communion and be at peace is to return
your attention to its native place and to your holy function. And so it
promotes Atonement, it promotes your Awakening. And in so doing, puts
you in a position of being able to address the attraction of death&mdash;the
next obstacle to peace&mdash;and to do it without fear and to do it with a
greater clarity that death is just a misperception and abandoning the
attraction to it constitutes release from illusion, not the loss of
anything. This is important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit's messengers are sent far beyond the body, &hellip;
</div>

You see? Far beyond the body as you are perceiving it, this little
discrete shape that for most is not any taller than six feet&mdash;little,
inconsequential in the face of the immensity of space&mdash;you send things
from your discrete shape to someone else&rsquo;s discrete shape and unity of
mind is never experienced. The actuality of what you Are as
consciousness and the actuality of the one you&rsquo;re communicating with as
consciousness is never brought into play. You see?

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit's messengers are sent far beyond the body, calling the mind
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that infinite Presence of attention that includes everything &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to join in holy communion and be at peace.
</div>

So the peace flows over the valuing of the body for what it seems to be
able to do that is apparently essential to your well-being.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Such is the message that I gave them for you.

It is only the messengers of fear that see the body, for they look for
what can suffer.

&hellip; they look for what can suffer.
</div>

Well, you might not have thought about it that way, but you use control
always, and succeed at the use of control through the threat of pain,
the threat of suffering, the threat of some sort of penalty or
unkindness or inconsideration or withdrawal of approval. You see? It&rsquo;s
mean. Because you know from your experience that those things make you
hurt either physically or mentally or emotionally. And you know it
works. And so you have learned that it&rsquo;s valuable to you to employ.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is only the messengers of fear that see the body, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as something discrete and as something that constitutes the individual
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for they look for what can suffer. Is it a sacrifice to be
REMOVED from what can suffer?
</div>

Now, that may mean being removed from the body or being removed from the
misperception of body? Obviously the latter.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit does not demand you sacrifice the hope of the body's pleasure;
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; remember, I said that in this misidentification or
misunderstanding your body enjoys pleasure or pain. We&rsquo;ve talked about
pain, now here &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit does not demand you sacrifice the hope of the body's pleasure;
it HAS no hope of pleasure.
</div>

That which doesn&rsquo;t exist the way you&rsquo;re perceiving it can&rsquo;t have any
effect applied to it. It can&rsquo;t have an experience of anything. You see?
And so the pleasure that you think you might lose if you&rsquo;re not
identifying with the body is an impossible circumstance. It never was
there as an experience of pleasure in the first place. And the illusion
of pain or pleasure in the identification with the body is what will
disappear as you shift to identification with the Mind that is aware of
body and trees and tables and all form.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But neither can it bring you fear of pain. Pain is the only "sacrifice" the
Holy Spirit asks, and this He WOULD remove.
</div>

Now, it is always removed when you abandon your insistence upon coping
with problems through the use of your body. It&rsquo;s that simple!

When you stop using your body to provide the force to make things happen
and you enter into the holy instant to join with the Holy Spirit &ndash; which
is the Father&rsquo;s Perspective and is nothing more than your right Mind &ndash;
you will find pain and false pleasure disappearing. And the threat of
their being taken away will disappear. And the threat of their effects
will disappear, because now you are functioning in the arena where God&rsquo;s
laws prevail. You see? But it only happens in the release of the body as
a tool for accomplishing godless acts. And when I say &ldquo;godless acts,&rdquo; I
mean acts in which God was not brought into the picture and with Whom
you are not engaging in actions. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Peace is extended from you only to the eternal, and it reaches out from the
eternal in YOU.
</div>

In your abandonment of the concept of yourself as a body, as a mortal,
as an organism in a physical universe, the divineness of you that has
always been present underneath those mistaken self-beliefs becomes
illuminated to you. And in their illumination from the holiness of you,
from the eternal in you, they are shared. That&rsquo;s the blessing of the
holy instant. That&rsquo;s the function of the holy instant. It reunites that
which was always One as the conscious experience of All from which
nothing is withheld and your invulnerability and peace and joy are
irrevocably present. This is the point. And the way to that experience
is in abandoning the belief that the body is valuable for what it
offers, for what use you can put it to without knowing who you Are and
without finding God anywhere in anything

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Peace is extended from you only to the eternal, and it reaches out from the
eternal in YOU. It flows across all else. The second obstacle is no more solid
than the first. For you will neither to get rid of peace NOR limit it.
</div>

You don&rsquo;t will for either one of those.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What are these obstacles which you would interpose between peace and its
going forth but barriers you place between your will and its
accomplishment?
</div>

Meaning the accomplishment of your will. You see? The obstacles which you
would interpose between peace and its going forth are barriers you place
between your will and its accomplishment. In other words, &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You WANT communion, not the feast of fear. You WANT salvation, not the pain of
guilt. And you want your Father, NOT a little mound of clay, to be your home.
</div>

You see, those are your will. Stop interposing what blocks it and you will
experience it clearly as yours and you will become integrated&mdash;single.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In your holy relationship &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; with your Brother or Sister &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is your Father's Son.
</div>

&hellip; is your Father&rsquo;s Offspring, the holy one that, the one
you&rsquo;re in holy relationship is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He has not lost communion with Him, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; nor with himself. When you agreed to join each other, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in a holy relationship, I&rsquo;m adding &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you acknowledged this is so. This has no cost, but it has RELEASE from
cost.
</div>

Wow!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have paid very dearly for your illusions, and nothing you have paid for
brought you peace.
</div>

You see? As long as you took the misperception of your first few minutes of
life after birth, because you took those perceptions and solidified them into
a permanent definition or meaning of you, of body, of world, of Brothers,
Sisters and so on, because of that you have not had the opportunity to shift
from body identification to Mind identification.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have paid very dearly for your illusions, and nothing you have paid for
brought you peace.
</div>

&hellip; because you&rsquo;re still stuck in a misidentification of you. And it&rsquo;s
coloring every part of your holy experience causing it to seem to be unholy.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Are you not GLAD that Heaven cannot be sacrificed, and sacrifice cannot
be asked of you? There IS no obstacle which you can place before our
union, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; yours and mine &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for in your holy relationship I am there already.
</div>

You see? You don&rsquo;t have to seek for me because I was with you before you
took your first few breathes and suddenly thought you were a discrete
form in a delivery room. I was with you and you were who you divinely
Are then and you still Are, but you&rsquo;re only now coming back into the
realization of what that Means, you holy Son or Daughter of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We will surmount all obstacles together, for we stand within the gates,
and not outside.
</div>

In other words, we stand within the conscious experience of Being, the
state of Attention. We stand within That and not outside. We do not
stand in the picture you have of being a discrete form amongst other
discrete forms that can only communicate through space to each other and
never quite unified, never quite experience perfect unity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How easily the gates are opened from within, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, from that place of identification as Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How easily the gates are opened &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; like opened outward from the altar within you, instead of opened in
a wall on a street, in a city, in a country on your globe in the middle of
a universe. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How easily the gates are opened from within, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; this is what you need to understand so that there&rsquo;s a willingness to
embrace the experiment of identifying as Mind, because you will find that the
gates open easily &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; from within, to let peace through&hellip;
</div>

And another way of saying it might be: to let peace out &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to bless the tired world! Can it be difficult for us to walk past
barriers together, when you have joined the limitless?
</div>

No. Now, dare to experiment with this so that we can have the experience
together and you can become freed from the belief that the only way to
solve problems is to give vent to distress, anger, frustration, hate,
through the use of the body to give yourself more presence that can
provide greater and greater control through force in your world. Here it
is &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The end of guilt is in your hands to give.
</div>

You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you stop now to look for guilt in each other?
</div>

Would you look for opportunities to tense up your body to get the
adrenaline rushing so that you might have the power to overcome whatever
stands in the way of what you call your good? Is that what you would do
when you have another alternative that arises out of the awareness that
the body is not valuable for what it offers, but the Love in you, the
Truth in you, the Principle in you, the Life in you - governs, inspires,
illumines, and is the Movement that is called Creation.

I love you all who have no body which is valuable for what it offers, but who
Are the Presence of Mind which embraces everything and blesses everything into
the singleness and purity, the unflawed Presence of Life.

And I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: T19.6 Obstacles to Peace, The Second Obstacle

